.TH POTENTIAL 5NEMO "28 October 2005"
.SH NAME
acceleration \- format for accelerations description (functors)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <acceleration.h>
.PP
.B typedef void(*acc_pter)         /* return: void                            */
.B     (int,                      /* input:  number of dimensions            */
.B      double,                   /* input:  simulation time                 */
.B      int,                      /* input:  number bodies = size of arrays  */
.B      const void*,              /* input:  masses:         m[i]            */
.B      const void*,              /* input:  positions       (x,y,z)[i]      */
.B      const void*,              /* input:  velocities      (u,v,w)[i]      */
.B      const int *,              /* input:  flags           f[i]            */
.B      void*,                    /* output: potentials      p[i]            */
.B      void*,                    /* output: accelerations   (ax,ay,az)[i]   */
.B      int,                      /* input:  indicator                       */
.B      char);                    /* input:  type: 'f' or 'd'                */
.PP
.ta +3i
.B acc_pter get_acceleration(
.B	const char*,   /* input:  acc_name               */
.B	const char*,   /* input:  acc_pars               */
.B	const char*,   /* input:  acc_file               */
.B	bool      *,   /* output: need masses?           */
.B	bool      *);  /* output: need velocities?       */
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIacceleration(5NEMO)\fP are implemented as an improvement to the 
nearly-compatible \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP format.
.SH PARAMETERS
The 4th argument to get_acceleration() is boolean and returns whether
masses are required as input for acceleration(). If they are not
required a NULL pointer may be given.
.PP
The 5th argument to get_acceleration() is boolean and returns whether
velocities are required as input for acceleration(). If they are not
required a NULL pointer may be given.
Velocities may be used to compute friction forces, such as the drag
a gaseous disk is generating on stars crossing it.
.PP
arrays are passed as pointer to void. They must be either all of type
float or all of type double as indicated by the last argument being 'f'
or 'd', respectively.
.PP
arrays of vector quantities are in the order x0,y0,z0, x1,y1,z1, ...
.PP
if the pointer to flags is NULL, all bodies are supposed to be active,
otherwise only those for which (f[i] & 1) is true.
.PP
the argument "indicator" of acceleration() indicates whether the
accelerations and potential shall be assigned or added.
If bit 0 is set, the potential    is added, otherwise assigned,
If bit 1 is set, the acceleration is added, otherwise assigned.
So, 0 means both are assigned.





.SH EXAMPLES
The following table lists the non-pattern speed parameters 
for a few example potentials
found in \fB$NEMOOBJ/potential\fP. \fINote: the pattern
speed is not listed here\fP
.ta +1.5i +1.5i
.nf
\fBharmonic\fP	wx,wy,wz	1,1,1
\fBplummer\fP	m,a      	1,1
\fBlog\fP  	mc,rc,q  	1,1,1
\fBbar83\fP	fm,fx,ca	1.334697416,8.485281374,0.2
\fBhackforce\fP	tol,eps,rsize,fcells	1,0.025,4,0.75
\fBccd\fP	Iscale,Xcen,Ycen,Dx,Dy	1,0,0,1,1
.fi
A full listing, including their mathematical expression can be
found in the NEMO manual, see also \fI$NEMO/text/manuals/potential.inc,\fP,
and of course in \fI$NEMO/src/orbit/potential/data\fP.
.SH BUGS
Since the later introduction of a third character valued
parameter in \fIinipotential()\fP
a Fortran-to-C interface cannot be used in as portable a way as
before. A small Fortran-to-C interface is however available, but
is not guaranteed to work on all machines.
Also keep in mind if you write your potentials in fortran:
common blocks and other used routines get loaded into the
executable, with the potential for duplicate symbol names.

Most likely \fIloadobj(3NEMO)\fP will break under such circumstances.
.PP
Second: no I/O should be done. In practise this also means that
this third parameter, \fBpotfile\fP, of \fIinipotential\fP cannot
be used, as is mostly serves as a filename. The reason is that
we didn't want the programs to have to link in huge fortran I/O
libraries, including various portability problems. 
.PP
There is one exception: \fIpotlist(1NEMO)\fP is allowed to 
load \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP files with FORTRAN WRITE statements.
After you have made sure the function works as you think, 
these statements must be Commented out and can then be reloaded
by most other potential/orbit programs.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
The environment variable \fBACCPATH\fP can be used to search for accelerations
in other than the local directory. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
acceleration(3NEMO), potential(5NEMO), manipulator(5NEMO),gyrfalcON(1NEMO)
.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben
.SH "FILES"
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/orbit/potential   potential.c, potential.h potentialf.c
~/text/manuals      	potential.inc (latex description)
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +2.0i +2.0i
28-oct-05	man page finally written	PJT
.fi
