.TH DATA 5NEMO "9 January 2002"
.SH NAME
data \- list of various data files in $NEMODAT
.SH DESCRIPTION
Various data files may have been supplied with the NEMO version
you have running, and can be found in the directory \fB$NEMODAT\fP.
The convention for filename extensions is that \fIascii\fP files
have extension \fB.data\fP, whereas binary \fIfilestruct(5NEMO)\fP
files have extension \fB.dat\fP, although this is not always strictly
enforced. Sometimes both the binary and ascii file may be present,
in which case you have to confirm that \fItsf\fP produces the
right result by comparing with the \fIascii\fP data version. 
.PP
Some table files are specifically designed for the N-body creation
program \fImkommod\fP.
.PP
The environment variable \fBNEMODAT\fP is defined as part of your normal
NEMO setup, programs sometimes use this as a default directory
to search  for data.
.SH DATA FILES
.nf
.ta +1.5i
iau25.dat	Standard IAU 25-body problem (M. Lecar, Bull.Astr. 3, 91. 1968)
pyth.dat	3-body Pythagorean Problem (e.g. Szebehely & Peters AJ, 72, 876, 1967)
figure8.mpv	a stable figure8 orbit in 3body problem (Chenciner & Montgomery)
3body.tab	Suvakov & Dmitrasinovic (2013) 3body initial conditions periodic orbits
k1isot.dat	Osipkov-Merritt DF : wc=1 isotropic velocity distr.
k3isot.dat	Osipkov-Merritt DF : wc=3
k5an01.dat	Osipkov-Merritt DF : wc=5 anisotropic velocity distr.
k5an02.dat	Osipkov-Merritt DF
k5isot.dat	Osipkov-Merritt DF
k7an01.dat	Osipkov-Merritt DF : wc=7
k7isot.dat	Osipkov-Merritt DF
plum.dat	Osipkov-Merritt DF: plummer (isotropic)
devauc.dat	Osipkov-Merritt DF: De Vaulouleurs (isotropic)
expmodel.inp	Example table for \fImkexphot\fP
starlab/cube10.dyn	example starlab data (dyn): [mkcube -n 10 -s 123]

archive     	Archive of interesting N-body simulations
        	        (usually a symbolic link to a large local disk)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapshot(5NEMO), image(5NEMO), tsf(1NEMO)
.PP
\fIA comparison of eleven numerical integrations of the same gravitational 25 body
problem\fP,
Myron. Lecar, Bull.Astr. 3, 91. 1968 (in: Colloque sur le problem gravitationnel des N
corps).
.PP
http://orca.ucsc.edu/~rmont/index.html for the Figure-8 orbit
.PP
http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0181 - \fIThree Classes of Newtonian Three-Body Planar Periodic Orbits\fP, Suvakov & Dmitrasinovic (2013)
.PP
https://yt-project.org/data/ - sample datasets for testing
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/data   	standard repository area for data files.
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
24-jun-87	created  	PJT
22-jul-90	IAU25 added  	PJT
22-jul-91	added expmodel.inp	PJT
23-nov-93	added devauc.dat	PJT
12-apr-97	added starlab examples	PJT
4-mar-99	added archive link to large archive	PJT
9-jun-01	added figure8 orbit info 	PJT
10-mar-13	added 3body periodic orbits table	PJT
.fi

