.TH DOC 5MIR "13 October 1991"
.SH NAME
doc \- documentation format for miriad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each MIRIAD/NEMO program using the online help feature in
their respective shells (such as \fImiriad\fP and \fImirtool\fP)
has a simple ASCII file in \fB$MIRPDOC\fP (for NEMO: \fB$NEMODOC\fP)
with the name \fIprogram\fP\fB.doc\fP. In addition a \fBcdoc\fP is
used to document shell scripts.
.PP
This file contains the text displayed with the \fBhelp\fP command
in \fImiriad\fP or when online help is requested in
\fImirtool\fP with a context sensitive mouse button click.
.PP
Within the various packages that use the \fIdoc(5MIR)\fP format,
special programs exist that extract the doc-file from the
source code \fIdoc(1MIR)\fP, or the executable \fImkpdoc(8NEMO)\fP
.SH FORMAT
Format of .doc files associated with tasks; or of .sdoc files for routines:
.nf

%N taskname [%F filename]
multi-line program description
%D one-line description (note: maximum length is 65 characters)
%P person responsible for maintaining the task
%: section(s) in systematic list of tasks
%A keyword
multi-line keyword description
[%B
multi-line description block]
.PP
 > The %A and %B directives may be repeated many times
 > in multi-line description blocks lines may start with <TAB> or ' '
 > they must not pass column 72
 > Descriptions may contain any character. Characters special to (La)TeX
 > ($&%#{}_~^|<>) (but not \) are escaped; " is changed into `` and ''.
 > If character 1 and 2 are ' ' or <TAB> line is set in (La)TeX's verbatim mode.
.fi
.SH FORMAT FOR .for, .f AND .c FILES:
Within MIRIAD programs, it is common to include directives 
for \fIdoc(1MIR)\fP to extract a .doc file. The format for this is:
.nf
  c= [module name] [one-line description] for tasks
  c* [module name] [filename] [one-line description] for subroutines
  c& person responsible for maintaining the routine
  c: comma separated list of keywords pertaining to the routine
  c+ this starts a multi-line documentation block.
  [c@ keyword
  multi-line keyword description]
  [c< keyword]
  c-- this ends a multi-line documentation block.
.PP
> The documentation block between c+ and c-- may contain any character,
> except that the tilde (~) cannot be used inside a verbatim block
> Lines with descriptions should not pass column 72
> The flag character 'c' may also be 'C' or '\*' (the latter for .c files)
> In case the extension-override option -e was used, directives should
> start with # or $!
> Descriptions may contain any character. Characters special to (La)TeX
> ($&%#{}_~^|<>) (but not \) are escaped; " is changed into `` and ''.
> If character 1 and 2 are ' ' or <TAB> line is set in (La)TeX's verbatim mode.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkpdoc(8NEMO), mknemo(8NEMO), doc(1MIR)
.SH AUTHOR
Bart Wakker, Peter Teuben
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
21-jun-91	doc created  	PJT
13-oct-91	more documentation - made it MIR ownership	PJT
.fi
