.TH FITS 5NEMO "29 September 2001"
.SH NAME
fits \- standard astronomical data interchange format 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIFITS\fP (Flexible Image/Information Transport System)
is \fBTHE\fP standard format for the interchange
of astronomical images and other digital arrays (ascii and binary 
tables, random groups, etc.).
A \fIfits\fP file consists of several, not necceseraly related,
Header-Data-Units (HDUs), of which the Data part may be absent.
.PP
The header has an unlimited number of parameters in the form
\fIkey=value / comment\fP that may be associated with 
and describe the data. The header consists of 
ASCII records of 80 characters (with optional line separators) each; 
both header and data have a blocksize of a 2880 bytes (or a small integer (1-10)
factor thereof - the blocking factor). All major astronomical
data reduction packages (AIPS, GIPSY, MIRIAD, IRAF, MIDAS etc.).
can import/export their data from/to FITS format in some extent. 
However, there are some known FITS ``dialects''.
.PP
The FITS format was originally described in a classic paper 
by D.H. Wells, E.W. Greisen and R.H. Harten in 
\fIAstronomy and Astrophysics Supplement Series, Vol. 44 (1981), pp. 363-370\fP.
A number of addenda have been published since then, which describe
various extensions to the format. There is often information
in the manuals of packages like AIPS and IRAF. An updated version
is published by
R. Hanish \fIet al.\fP in 
\fIAstronomy and Astrophysics, Vol. 376 (2001), pp. 359\fP.
(bibcode: \fB2001A&A...376..359H\fP)
.PP
NEMO has two library routines available to process \fIfits\fP
files: \fIfits(3NEMO)\fP and \fIfitsio(3NEMO)\fP, the latter
more specialized to read and write images and derived (and compatible
with) from the MIRIAD fitsio interface.
.SH KEYWORDS
The following header keywords describe the most important
facts about the data (or at least enables a reader to skip data)
.nf
.ta +1i
SIMPLE	T (standard FITS file)
BITPIX	Number of bits per datum [choice of 8, 16, 32, -32, -64, (64 experimental)
	(-32,-64 IEEE floating point, 8 unsigned, 16,32 twos-complement ints)
NAXIS	total number of axes (0, 1, 2, ... 999) in cube
NAXISn	size of a particular axis (n=1 through NAXIS) in cube
PCOUNT	number of extra parameters associated with cube [0 if not present]
GCOUNT	number of repetitions of the cube+parameter [1 if not present]
.PP
CRVALn	value of the coordinate at the reference pixel
CRPIXn	the reference pixel (often in range 1..NAXISn)
CDELTn	increment per pixel
CTYPEn	coordinate type (an ascii string)
DATE-OBS	Observing date: new Y2K format "yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ss"
TIME-OBS	Observing time, "hh:mm:ss", deprecated after new Y2K
.PP
HISTORY  	history records (no '=' needed)
COMMENT  	comment cards (no '=' needed)
.PP
END  	last keyword in header
.fi
For SIMPLE=T fits file the size of the data section (in bytes) 
can always be computed from the following formula:
.nf
        |BITPIX/8| * GCOUNT * (PCOUNT + NAXIS1*NAXIS2* ... *NAXIS\fIm\fP)  
.fi
where \fIm\fP is the value of NAXIS. This size must of course be rounded
up to the nearest multiple of 2880 bytes. After this, either there is no
more information on the medium, or another HDU can be read.
.SH TIME
The old DATE-OBS format (with the Y2K problem) was yy-dd-mm, and some
files might have a corresponding TIME-OBS keyword, hh:mm:ss. The new
format follows the ISO format, obtained with the unix date command
as follows:
.nf
    date +%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S.%N
    2020-12-18T13:15:49.648961250
.fi
and this should be the new format (with as many sub-second digits as are needed).
.SH COORDINATE SYSTEMS
World Coordinate Systems are described in detail in
draft by E.W. Greisen and M. Calabretta (AIPS memo 99?) titled
\fIRepresentations of Celestial Coordinates in FITS\fP.
.PP
Some common coordinate systems:
.nf
LINEAR          Simple linear coordinate system
RA, DEC         Equatorial  (followed by a projection type)
ELON, ELAT      Ecliptic  (followed by a projection type)
GLON, GLAT      Galactic (followed by a projection type)
.fi
.PP
Some common coordinate system projection types:
.nf
    RP  Name
___ __  ___________________________________
AZP 90  Zenithal perspective                
TAN 90  Gnomic (AZP w/ mu = 0)             
SIN 90  Orthographic (AZP w/ mu = infty)
NCP 90  North celestial pole (special case of SIN) 
STG 90  Stereographic (AZP w/ mu = 1)      
ARC 90  Zenithal equidistant                 
ZPN 90  Zenithal polynomial                 
ZEA 90  Zenithal equal-area                  
AIR 90  Airy                                
CYP  0  Cylindrical perspective             
CAR  0  Cartesian                            
MER  0  Mercator                             
CEA  0  Cylindrical equal area              
COP 90  Conical perspective                 
COD 90  Conical equidistant                 
COE 90  Conical equal-area                  
COO 90  Conical orthomorphic                
BON 90  Bonne's equal area                  
PCO  0  Polyconic                            
SFL  0  Sanson-Flamsteed
GLS  0  GLobal Sinusoidal (Similar to SFL)                          
PAR  0  Parabolic                            
AIT  0  Hammer-Aitoff equal area all-sky                       
MOL  0  Molweide                             
CSC  0  Cobe Quadrilateralized Spherical Cube  
QSC  0  Quadrilateralized Spherical Cube     
TSC  0  Tangential Spherical Cube
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ccdfits(1NEMO), fitsccd(1NEMO), fitssnap(1NEMO), fitstab(1NEMO),
fitsio(3NEMO), fits(3NEMO), image(5NEMO)
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
30-may-88	written  	PJT
20-mar-90	Nemo's FITS I/O library is being tested  	PJT
3-jul-94	doc updated with PCOUNT/GCOUNT	PJT
28-sep-01	experimental bitpix 64 added	PJT
18-dec-20	y2k date-obs reminder	PJT
.fi
