.TH HI 5NEMO "11 April 1994"
.SH NAME
hi \- ascii format for (ADC and other) HI surveys
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <hi.h>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIhi(5)\fP describes the raw ascii HI survey dataformat from the
standard NSSDC data archive.  Five datasets are currently available from
the  Astronomical Data Center
(ADC) in a more-or-less uniform format (albeit not FITS). Other
datasets have been converted and  added to  this database to provide an
all sky coverage.  Users can define their own format, for which an
extra slot is available. Subsequent processing (mapmaking) can be
done with \fIhispectrum(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
The ascii format is basically as follows: 
each record, with line length \fIreclen\fP
(excluding the newline), consists of a small header followed by \fInchan\fP
values of the spectrum. The header must at least contain the pointing
position, \fIglon\fP and \fIglat\fP, 
and sometimes variables that are only
known to the decoding routines (see \fBdecode.f\fP). 
All values in the header are integers, typically 10 times or 100 times,
the actual real value, but this is certainly no requirement. It merely
saves space.
.PP
Here are some properties of the available surveys from $HI_DIR:
.nf
.ta +0.6iR +0.5iR +0.5iR +0.3iL +1.8iL +1.6iL

\fIid\fP	\fIreclen\fP	\fInrec\fP	\fInchan\fP	\fISurvey\fP	\fIAuthors\fP	\fISource\fP
.ta +0.6iR +0.5iR +0.5iR +0.3iL +1.8iL +1.6iL

\fBhh\fP	643	134932	100	Hat Creek High-Latitude 	(Heiles+ 1974-1976) 	ADC 8007
\fBpk\fP	420	9891	64	Parkes High-Latitude    	(Cleary+ 1979)       	ADC 8008
\fBar\fP	396	55470	56	Argentina High-Latitude 	(Colomb 1980)       	ADC 8009
\fBbl\fP	703	22261	124	Bell Laboratories       	(Stark+ 1990)        	ADC 8010
\fBww\fP	1204	38961	238	Berkeley Low-Latitude     	(Weaver, Williams 1973)	ADC 8011
\fBjo\fP	1314	38961	260	Berkeley Low-Latitude     	(Weaver, Williams 1973)	JO fits
\fBkj\fP	1514	17901	300	Parkes Southern Low-Latitude 	(Kerr+ 1986)   	JO fits
\fBlb\fP	1130	1842	224	Galactic Center             	(Burton, Liszt, 1983)	Liszt fits
.fi
.PP
Some telescope properties, in particular the conversion from
antenna temperature to brightness temperature, are:
.nf
.ta +1iR +1iR +1iR +1iR +1iL +1iL

\fIid\fP	\fIbeam\fP	\fIspacing\fP	\fIspacing\fP	\fITA/TB\fP
        	\fI(deg)\fP	\fI(deg)\fP	\fI(km/s)\fP	\fIconversion\fP
.ta +1iR +1iR +1iR +1iR +1iL +1iL

\fBhh\fP	0.5	0.5	2 :	?	Hat Creek 26m (85ft)
\fBpk\fP	0.5	0.5	2 :	?	Parkes 64m (210ft)
\fBar\fP	0.5	2	4	?	PPI 30m
\fBbl\fP	2	2	5.2767	?	7m Bell Labs
\fBww\fP	0.5	0.25	1.055	?	T_A Hat Creek 26m (85ft)
\fBjo\fP   	0.5  	0.25 	1.0	?	T_A Hat Creek 26m (85ft)
\fBkj\fP	0.5	0.25	1.0	0.975	T_A Parkes 18m
\fBlb\fP	0.5	0.5	2.75	0.66	NRAO 140ft
.fi
Currently
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
On a UNIX system one can read the ADC tapes as follows:
.nf

    # ADC tape 1, skip the software, and read the data
    mt -f /dev/rmt12 fsf 1
    dd if=/dev/rmt12 of=hh.hi ibs=8464  cbs=643 conv=unblock
    dd if=/dev/rmt12 of=pk.hi ibs=8464  cbs=420 conv=unblock
    dd if=/dev/rmt12 of=ar.hi ibs=8464  cbs=396 conv=unblock ?
    dd if=/dev/rmt12 of=bl.hi ibs=14060 cbs=703 conv=unblock

    # ADC tape 2, skip the software, and read the data
    mt -f /dev/rmt12 fsf 1
    dd if=/dev/rmt12 of=ww.hi ibs=12040 cbs=1204 conv=unblock

    # JO fits files
    fitstohi in=fits id=482:702:1 lon=240:350:0.5 out=kj.hi cdelt1=1000

    # BL fits cube
    fitstohi in=hicenter.vlb out=lb.hi

.fi
The \fIconv=unblock\fP causes a newline to be inserted after each
record, such that (in principle) \fIfgets(3S)\fP and \fIwc(1)\fP can
be used for processing (but see BUGS below).
.PP
On a VMS system the \fBDUMP_NSDC\fP program
(generally found in the first file on the ADC tape)
can be used to convert (ADC) tape data into a disk file.
.SH BUGS
The \fIpk\fP format contains a NULL (0x00) at position 36 in each
record. It separates header from spectrum. \fIdecode_pk\fP can
handle this, but it is not always clear that \fIfgets\fP would,
hence programs like \fIhispectrum\fP should use \fIfread(3)\fP
with the correct record-length to read data.
.PP
The \fIww\fP seems to contain bad data for L=11.5, 29 and 91.5.
Use \fIjo\fP instead, which has been derived from the equivalent
VB-FITS files.
.PP
Ra and Dec are not known for the WW, LB and KJ datasets.
.PP 
If you modify/add a new dataformat, you have to modify \fIhi.h\fP, 
\fIdecode.f\fP and the switch-table in \fIhispectrum.c\fP. This should
have been clearly isolated to one routine.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.PP 
\fBLB:\fP
The original data from H.S.Liszt (\fIhicenter.vlb\fP) is
a FITS cube of spectra in \fIl\fP and 
\fIb\fP, with the velocity axis specified in m/s.  
Reference: W. B. Burton and H. S. Liszt, 1983 \fIA&A Suppl\fP \fB52\fP, p. 63.
.PP
\fBKJ:\fP
The original data from P. Jackson consist of 221 separate VB fits 
files, each
one at a different galactic longitude. Created by
J. Ohlmacher and P. Jackson (11-dec-84)
Reference:
Kerr, F. J., Bauer P.F., 
Jackson, P.D. & Kerr, M., 1986 \fIA&A Suppl\fP \fB66\fP, p. 373.
.PP
\fBJO/WW:\fP
Gridded fits data are 481 separate VB fits file, each on a different
galactic longitude. Created by
J. Ohlmacher and P. Jackson (14-dec-81)
Reference:
Weaver, H. & Williams, D.R.W., 1974 \fIA&A Suppl\fP \fB17\fP, p. 1.
.PP
\fBPK\fP
Reference:
Cleary, M. N., Haslam, C. G. T. & Heiles, C. 1979
\fIA&A Suppl\fP \fB36\fP, p.95-127.
.SH ADC ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
By using these programs and the data that they access, the user
also agrees to the following:
.TP
1. 
If data from any survey are used in a publication, the user
will reference the original authors of the survey, as if the
original authors had themselves provided the data to the user,
by quoting the appropriate publication in the usual fashion.
.TP
2. 
Whenever data obtained from the NSSDC are used in a publication
acknowledgment shall be made to Dr. Wayne H. Warren Jr. and/or
the Astronomical Data Center/National Space Science Data Center
for storing and distributing the data.
.TP
3. 
If the survey data or software described herein are used,
acknowledgment shall be made to William T. Reach for creating
the tape and writing the software.
.PP
There is no implied guarantee that these routines will perform the
tasks they claim. In other words, user beware--check the results
before using them.
.SH SEE ALSO
hispectrum(1NEMO), fitstohi(1NEMO), fitshicube(1NEMO), decode.f
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben, William T. Reach (decode.f)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
$HI_DIR/??.hi             	all ascii versions [200 Mb]
$HI_DIR/??.hi.Z         	compressed ascii [49 Mb]
$HI_DIR/??.hi.gz         	compressed ascii
$HI_DIR/fits/hifits.*     	WW (1-481) and KJ (482-702) VB maps [33 Mb]
$HI_DIR/fits/hicenter.vlb	Burton & Liszt VLB cube [1 Mb]
$NEMO/usr/pjt/hi               	NEMO programs source code
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
29-jun-92	V1.0: Created                   	PJT
 7-jul-92	documented all associated data    	PJT
8-apr-94    	added JO dataset                  	pjt
11-apr-94	renamed .raw extension to .hi      	pjt
.fi
