.TH KEYWORDS 5NEMO "6 June 2001"
.SH NAME
keywords \- list of standard keywords in NEMO. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Some keywords in NEMO have a ``\fIreserved\fP'' meaning. Thus, if
the meaning of a desired keyword can be found in the description
below, you should use that keyword given with that description.
They often come with associated subroutines which aid in parsing,
making it's parsing (and error messages) even more uniform
to users.
It significantly eases the pain of users if
keywords are used consistently.
Also, parsing rules should be the same. 
For example \fBxrange\fP always
has two numbers, separated with a \fB:\fP,  although
it could also use :max or min:, where in these cased
0 is meant for the number not specified.
.PP
The \fB?\fP in the keywords below denotes 
any character, e.g. \fBxrange\fP and \fByrange\fP both apply to  the
comments under \fB
.SH KEYWORDS
.TP 20
.B in	
Any input file (snapshot, image, table, orbit, fits)
.TP
.B out	
Any output file, though not necessarely the same as the \fBin=\fP
format if used in the same program. Conversion programs are
notorious for this.
.TP
.B times	
Selection of times: \fBall\fP or \fIt1:t2,t3,...\fP, frequently
used in snapshots (and orbits?). Note that this keyword is the one
where the \fInemoinp\fP parsing rules do not apply.
.TP
.B ?range	
Two numbers, separated by a colon,
to select a min and max \fIx1:x2\fP {x,y,z,}
.TP
.B ?var	
Expression (normally used in \fIbodytrans\fP variables) {x,y,z,e,f,}
.TP
.B ?col	
Columns {x,y}
.TP
.B ?label  
Labels with a graph {x,y}
.TP
.B n?ticks	
Number of tickmarks an on axis in a graph {x,y}
.TP
.B ?box	
Location of a box on graph. Two numbers, separated by a colon.
The location is in yapp units, i.e. \fIcm\fP, ranging from 0 to 20
on a full plot. {x,y}
.TP
.B ?ticks	
Tickmark values, that belong to an axis. By default the number of
tickmarks (\fBn?ticks\fP and their range (\fB?range\fP) will
determine the tickmark values, but the user can also supply his
own array. It must be a comma separated array, normal \fInemoinp\fP
parsing rules apply. {x,y}. 
.TP
.B nsigma
Rejection level of of points from a distribution where
points that are outside nsigma times the current sigma from the mean.
Often sigma is recomputed after a point has been rejected, since they
tend to bias the computation of sigma.
.TP
.B visib	
Visibility of points, used in snapplot and clones. Must evaluate
as an integer, 0 meaning no visible, anything else is.
.TP
.B headline	
Random verbiage, often added to a datafile, or labeling graphs.
.TP
.B seed	
Random number seed. If 0 is used, the time of the day is used
as seed. Most programs should use 0 is the default.
.TP
.B potname	
Name of a potential(5NEMO) descriptor; normally required, rarely
a default is given.
.TP
.B potpars 
Parameters of a potential(5NEMO) descriptor; The first one is always
the pattern speed. Defaults depend on \fBpotname=\fP.
.TP
.B potfile 
Optional datafiles belonging to a potential(5NEMO) descriptor.
If it's used or if a default is allows, depends on \fBpotname=\fP.
.TP
.B nbody	
Number of bodies used in nbody creators. Some ancient programs will
use \fBndisk=\fP.
.TP
.B eps	
Gravitational softening length, in the usual meaning
(1/sqrt(r^2 + eps^2)).
.TP
.B freq
(Integration) frequency, 1/t
.TP
.B tstop	
Final time of integration.
.TP
.B options 
Selections of options, minimum match should be applied here. Options
are separated by comma's.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example extracts a list of all used keywords used in
NEMO, assuming the $MIRPDOC database is up to date.
.nf

  grep %A $NEMODOC/*.doc | awk '{print $2}' | sort | uniq -c | more

.fi
and sorted by frequency
.nf

  grep %A $NEMODOC/*.doc | awk '{print $2}' | sort | uniq -c | sort -nr | more

.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getparam(3NEMO), nemoinp(3NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
\fIprogram\fP.\fBdef\fP  	keyword database used in advanced \fBhelp=\fP
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
12-jun-92	document created  	PJT
14-nov-93	minor updates    	PJT
7-jun-01  	more keywords    	PJT
.fi
