.TH LAYOUT 5NEMO "21  October 1992"
.SH NAME
layout \- layout command for YAPP interpreter
.SH DESCRIPTION
A \fBlayout\fP file is a simple ASCII text file, with 
commands to execute basic \fIyapp(3NEMO)\fP routines. See
\fIlayout(3NEMO)\fP for routines how to interpret and execute
these files.
.PP
They can be useful for a more rich annotation of standard
plots made with programs such as \fIsnapplot(1NEMO)\fP
and \fItabplot(1NEMO)\fP, normally via their \fBlayout=\fP keyword.


.SH "COMMANDS"
.TP 30
\fBinit\fP \fIdevice xmin xmax ymin ymax\fP
Name of graphics device and optional parameters, if any choice 
at all, and the graphics plotting area in cm. (Standard plotting
area is 20cm by 20cm).
.TP
\fBstop\fP 
Close graphics device.

.TP
\fBltype\fP \fIwidth pattern\fP
0 will not change the current value. \fIwidth\fP: 1 thin and increasing
thickness. \fIpattern\fP: 1 is solid, subsequents are graphics device
dependant, but typically dashed, dotted etc.

.TP
\fBline\fP \fIx y\fP
Draw a line from current point to \fI(x,y)\fP [units in cm]

.TP
\fBmove\fP \fIx y\fP
Move the current point to \fI(x,y)\fP [units in cm]

.TP
\fBcolor\fP \fIi\fP
Set current color from 0 to plncolors-1 (an integer)

.TP
\fBpoint\fP \fIa b\fP
Draw a point at \fI(x,y)\fP [units in cm]

.TP
\fBcircle\fP \fIx y s\fP
Draw a circle at \fI(x,y)\fP with size \fIs\fP [units in cm]

.TP
\fBcross\fP \fIx y s\fP
Draw a cross at \fI(x,y)\fP with size \fIs\fP [units in cm]

.TP
\fBbox\fP \fIx y s\fP
Draw a square box at \fI(x,y)\fP with size \fIs\fP [units in cm]

.TP
\fBjust\fP \fIi\fP
Set text justification to \fIi\fP. -1 is left, 0 centered,
and +1 right justified.

.TP
\fBtext\fP \fIs x y h a\fP
Plot a string \fItext\fP (enclose in double quotes if spaces
are required) at \fI(x,y)\fP with character height \fIh\fP
[all units in cm] and at angle \fIa\fP degrees,
counterclockwise from the positive X-axis.

.TP
\fB#\fP
A comment.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
Here is an example (see also $NEMODAT/yapp.layout) layout file:
.nf

move 10 10
line 10 15
color 2
cross 5 5 1
color 3
circle 15 15 1
color 4
box  5 15 1
point 15 5
text "Yapp Yapp" 10 10 0.5 30

.fi

.SH "BUGS"
There are some more commands, but see \fIyapp(3NEMO)\fP.

.SH "FILES"
src/kernel/misc/layout.c	source code
dat/yapp.layout                 example

.SH "SEE ALSO"
layout(3NEMO), yapp(3NEMO), mgl(5), mglview(1)
.PP
MathGL - http://mathgl.sourceforge.net/

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
21-oct-92	document created  	PJT
2009		add link to MGL		PJT
aug-2022	fixed MGL link	PJT
feb-2023	add example yapp.layout	PJT

.fi
