.TH POTENTIAL 5NEMO "19 July 2004"
.SH NAME
potential \- format for (flow) potential (and force field) description (functors)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB #include <potential.>h
 #include <potential_float.h>      /* optional */

 typedef struct {
    string name;
    string pars;
    string file;
    struct a_potential *next;
 } a_potential; \fP
.PP
.ta +3i
\fBvoid inipotential (npar, par, name)\fP
.B int *npar;      	/* number of parameters (I) */
.B double par[];   	/* list of parameters (I/O) */
.B char *name;     	/* optional (file) name for data (I) */
.PP
\fBvoid potential_double (ndim, pos, acc, pot, time)\fP
.B const int *ndim;     	/* number of dimensions (I) */
.B const double pos[];  	/* position (I) */
.B double acc[], *pot;	/* forces and potential (O) */
.B const double *time;        /* time (I) */
.PP
\fBvoid potential_float (ndim, pos, acc, pot, time)\fP
.B const int *ndim;     	/* number of dimensions (I) */
.B const float pos[];  	/* position (I) */
.B float acc[], *pot;	/* forces and potential (O) */
.B const float *time;        /* time (I) */
.PP
\fBinteger function  inipotential (npar, par, name)\fP
.B integer npar
.B double precision par(*)
.B character name*(*)
.PP
\fBinteger function potential_double (ndim, pos, acc, pot, time)\fP
.B integer ndim     
.B double precision pos(*)
.B double precision acc(*) 
.B double precision pot
.B double precision time
.PP
\fBinteger function potential_float (ndim, pos, acc, pot, time)\fP
.B integer ndim     
.B real pos(*)
.B real acc(*) 
.B real pot
.B real time
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpotential\fP is a convenient data structure to hold an
ascii description of a user selected potential, and all it's
descriptors (id-name, parameters, associated strings/file(s)). It
is currently also stored in the \fIorbit(5NEMO)\fP data
structure.
.PP
\fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP  is a 'filestructure' which 
defines a potential (and force/density or velocity field) 
through a standardized 
interface routine, as described in \fIpotential(3NEMO)\fP.
.PP
A \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP datafile \fBmust\fP
have two (or three) externally accessible routines 
\fBinipotential\fP and \fBpotential_double\fP and/or
\fBpotential_flot\fP, (old name:\fBpotential\fP) with a 
parameter sequence as described above. The parameters are all
called by reference to allow interfaces with some common
but more primitive languages. Notably FORTRAN is now
supported in the BSD calling convention of parameters
(see \fBpotentialf.c\fP).
The first parameter, \fBpar[0]\fP in C, and \fBpar(1)\fP in
fortran, is reserved for the pattern speed. User written potentials
must take this into account. And return the pattern speed (or it's
default) in that location. If another parameter describes the
pattern speed (e.g. the lagrangian radius, as in \fIathan92\fP), 
\fIinipotential\fP 
must compute the pattern speed and return it in the first parameter.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following table lists the non-pattern speed parameters 
for a few example potentials
found in \fB$NEMOOBJ/potential\fP. \fINote: the pattern
speed is not listed here\fP
.ta +1.5i +1.5i
.nf
\fBharmonic\fP	wx,wy,wz	1,1,1
\fBplummer\fP	m,a      	1,1
\fBlog\fP  	mc,rc,q  	1,1,1
\fBbar83\fP	fm,fx,ca	1.334697416,8.485281374,0.2
\fBhackforce\fP	tol,eps,rsize,fcells	1,0.025,4,0.75
\fBccd\fP	Iscale,Xcen,Ycen,Dx,Dy	1,0,0,1,1
.fi
A full listing, including their mathematical expression can be
found in the NEMO manual, see also \fI$NEMO/text/manuals/potential.inc,\fP,
and of course in \fI$NEMO/src/orbit/potential/data\fP.
.SH BUGS
Since the later introduction of a third character valued
parameter in \fIinipotential()\fP
a Fortran-to-C interface cannot be used in as portable a way as
before. A small Fortran-to-C interface is however available, but
is not guaranteed to work on all machines.
Also keep in mind if you write your potentials in fortran:
common blocks and other used routines get loaded into the
executable, with the potential for duplicate symbol names.

Most likely \fIloadobj(3NEMO)\fP will break under such circumstances.
.PP
Second: no I/O should be done. In practise this also means that
this third parameter, \fBpotfile\fP, of \fIinipotential\fP cannot
be used, as is mostly serves as a filename. The reason is that
we didn't want the programs to have to link in huge fortran I/O
libraries, including various portability problems. 
.PP
There is one exception: \fIpotlist(1NEMO)\fP is allowed to 
load \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP files with FORTRAN WRITE statements.
After you have made sure the function works as you think, 
these statements must be Commented out and can then be reloaded
by most other potential/orbit programs.
.SH FLOW POTENTIALS
Experimental changes to the interface were implemented by the
\fIflowcode(1NEMO)\fP and \fIvpotcode(1NEMO)\fP code. This
requires special versions of potential desriptors, with the
same calling convention but different meaning to the arguments:
.PP
\fBflowcode\fP uses a potential which returns the (currently 2-dimensional)
velocities at the requested input position. These are returned in the
\fBacc\fP slot. The \fBpot\fP has no meaning, though is used to
represent densities in programs like \fImkflowdisk(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
\fBvpotcode\fP uses a potential which expects the velocity to be 
input in the \fBacc\fP slot, but the returned arguments
(\fBacc\fP and \fBpot\fP) have the same meaning. This is to emulate
(non-coriolis) forces which depend on velocity.
.PP
\fBmkflowdisk\fP initializes a 2D disk based on the flow velocities.
.SH "MERIDIONAL PLANE IN AXISYMMETRIC POTENTIALS"
A well known fact about meridional motion in an axisymmetric system
is that their 3D motion is really a 2D motion in the R-z plane with
an effective potential
.nf
                      L**2
            Phi +    ------
                     2 * R**2
.fi
but unlike motion in rotating potential this requires the authors of
potentials to modify their code in something like the following:
(pos[0] is R, pos[1] is z, pos[2] is not used)
.nf
    double tmp = sqr(ang_mom/pos[0]);
    *pot += 0.5*tmp;
    acc[0] += tmp / pos[0];
.fi
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
The environment variable \fBPOTPATH\fP can be used to search for potentials
in other than the local directory.
.SH OTHER
See also the "pav" format used in the LP-VI code (Carpintero et al.  ascl1501.007)
.SH "CAVEAT"
Since the old format did not use _float or _double, there will
be some potentials with no _float support, since _double is the
default if  not present in the symbol table. For C/C++ routines
authors are recommended to either split their potential() in
a potential_double() and potential_float(), or rename
potential() to potential_double() and include <potential_float.h>
(available for NEMO 3.2.2 and above) to have _float call 
_double (the penalty for this is about 4%).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
get_potential(3NEMO), orbit(5NEMO), acceleration(5NEMO), manipulator(5NEMO), flowcode(1NEMO), mkflowdisk(1NEMO), vpotcode(1NEMO)
.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben
.SH "FILES"
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/orbit/potential   potential.c, potential.h potentialf.c
~/text/manuals      	potential.inc (latex description)
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +2.0i +2.0i
13-Jul-87	V1.0: Original created	PJT
8-Apr-88	V2.0: added parameter 'name' for hackforce	PJT
13-Mar-89	V2.1: added 'name_len' in case fortran interface	PJT
9-feb-90	V3.0: added time parameter to potential()	PJT
24-may-92	V4.0: documented the new potential struct   PJT
11-oct-93	V5.0: formalized get_pattern	PJT
16-apr-96	documented 'flowcode' and 'vpotcode' deviations 	PJT
19-sep-01	documented _float/_double                        	PJT
19-nov-03	more flow documentation, added mkflowdisk	PJT
19-jul-04	promote acceleration(5)  	PJT
.fi
