.TH SNAP 5NEMO "21 November 1993"
.SH NAME
snap \- (fortran binary) format for N-body simulations - version 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB     include 'snap.inc'\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fISNAP\fP is a  (fortran-based) binary format used in Aguilar's (3D) 
N-body simulations. 
It has a fixed sized header and a variable sized data 
part (this format has gone through some revisions, see "VERSION 1" below)
The header defines the maximum number of particles, with information
place holders for a number of individual sub-components 
(dubbed ``galaxies'').
.PP
Each ``galaxy'' can have different combinations of density profiles,
velocity distributions and spatial shapes, the center of mass and
velocity can be specified individually for each one.
.SH EXAMPLE
The disk and memory image of \fIsnap\fP are very closely related.
The following code sections explains the include file, and how to 
read/write a single snapshot.
.nf
.ta +0.5i +3.5i +0i +0i +0i
\fB
	PARAMETER (Npmx = 50000)	!\fIMaximum number of particles\fP
	PARAMETER (Ngmx = 50)		!\fIMaximum number of galaxies\fP

	INTEGER iseed			!\fIrandom number generator seed\fP
	CHARACTER*72 comment		!\fIgeneral commentary for init. cond.\fP
	INTEGER Np			!\fI# of points in simulation\fP
	INTEGER Ngals			!\fI# of galaxies\fP
	INTEGER nframe			!\fI# of frame\fP
	REAL time			!\fItime for frame\fP

	CHARACTER*72 cparam(Ngmx)	!\fIgalaxies' character string array\fP
	LOGICAL lparam(16,Ngmx)		!\fIgalaxies' logical parameters array\fP
	INTEGER iparam(12,Ngmx)		!\fIgalaxies' integer parameters array\fP
	REAL rparam(40,Ngmx)		!\fIgalaxies' real parameters array\fP

	INTEGER index(Npmx)		!\fIarray used to indicate unbound particles\fP
	REAL lum(Npmx), m(Npmx), x(3,Npmx), v(3,Npmx)	!\fIpart. lum, mass, pos. & vel.\fP

	COMMON /snapshot/ iseed,comment,Np,Ngals,nframe,time,
	*                  cparam,lparam,iparam,rparam,index,m,lum,x,v

\fP
.fi
The following snippet of code would have written the unformatted version
of this \fBSNAP\fP data:
.nf
\fB
     open(99, file = snapfile // 'SNAP_u.dat ', form='unformatted',status='new')

     write(99) iseed,comment,Np,Ngals,nframe,time,
                (cparam(i),i=1,Ngals),
                ((lparam(i,j),i=1,16),j=1,Ngals),
                ((iparam(i,j),i=1,12),j=1,Ngals),
                ((rparam(i,j),i=1,40),j=1,Ngals),
                (index(i),i=1,Np),(m(i),i=1,Np),
                (lum(i),i=1,Np),
                ((x(i,j),i=1,3),j=1,Np),((v(i,j),i=1,3),j=1,Np)

\fP
.fi
Reading this format is exactly the same. 
Note the convention that the filename has a fixed
extension \fBSNAP_u.dat\fP for unformatted format, and the extension
\fBSNAP_f.dat\fP for the formatted version. To convert between these
two, see \fIsnapformat(1LAAC)\fP. 
.PP
The size of this data is \fB92 + 344*Ngals + 36*Np\fP, assuming 4 bytes
per \fBREAL\fP and \fBINTEGER\fP.
.SH GLOBAL INFORMATION
.PP
PARAMETERS:
.ta +0.5i +2.5i +0i +0i +0i
.nf
	Npmx:	Maximum number of particles
	Ngmx:	Maximum number of galaxies
.fi
.PP
CHARACTER VARIABLES:
.nf
	comment:	Commentary
.fi
.PP
INTEGER VARIABLES:
.nf
	iseed:		seed for random number generator
	Np:		Number of points in initial conditions
	ngals:		Number of galaxies
	nframe:     	Frame number in a series of snapshots (1=first)
	time:      	Time of the snapshot
	index(Npmx):	If (0), bound particle; if (1), unbound.
.fi
.PP
REAL VARIABLES:
.nf
	m(Npmx):	masses of individual particles
	lum(Npmx):	light to mass ratio for each particle
	x(3,Npmx):	spatial cartesian coordinates of particles
	v(3,Npmx):	cartesian velocity components of particles
.fi
.SH INDIVIDUAL GALAXY INFORMATION:
In each of the following arrays, the index, or second index if a matrix,
refers to the galaxy to which the information applies.
.PP
CHARACTER VARIABLES:
.nf
	cparam*72(Ngmx)	Comment
.fi
.PP
LOGICAL VARIABLES:
.nf
	lparam(16,Ngmx)
		i=1:	Equal masses for particles?
		  2:	Non-spherical shape?
		  3:	Rotation measured?
		  4:	Softened velocities?
		  5:	Principal axes aligned with frame of reference?
		  6:	Unbound particles marked?
		  7:	Density profile fitted?

		  8-16:	Not used
.fi
.PP
INTEGER VARIABLES:
.nf
	iparam(12,Ngmx)
		i=1:	Number of points
		  2:	Density profile code:
				1) constant density
				2) power-law
				3) isochrone
				4) Plummer
				5) Rood (modified Hubble)
				6) King
				7) de-Vaucouleurs
				8) Jaffe
				9) Hernquist
		  3:	Velocity distribution:
				1) isotropic
				2) anisotropic (Opsikov-Merritt)
				3) Circular orbits
		  4:	Mass function:
				1) equal masses
				2) power-law
		  5:	Number of bound particles

		  6-12:	Not used
.fi
.PP
REAL VARIABLES:
.nf
	rparam(40,Ngmx):
		i=1: 	pwr-law index, concentr., or 1D central vel. disp.
		  2:	rt (total radius)
		  3:	rh (half mass radius)
		  4:	Mg (Mass of galaxy)
		  5:	Ug (Potential energy of galaxy)
		  6:	ro (core radius)
		  7:	dens_o (central density)
		  8:	ra (anisotropy radius)
		  9:	(2T/U)tot (total virial ratio)
		 10:	(2T/U)rot (virial ratio for rotation)
		 11:	(X/Z) (major to minor axis ratio at 80% mass fract.)
		 12:	(Y/Z) (interm. to minor axis ratio at 80% ......   )
		 13-15:	(xo,yo,zo) (coordinates of center of galaxy)
		 16-18:	(vxo,vyo,vzo) (vel. comp. of center of galaxy)
		 19:	m1/<mi> (mass ratio of 1st part. to mean of others)
		 20:	Mass function index
		 21:	m_max/m_min (mass dynamical range)
		 22:	e1i^2 (squared soft. length for 1-i interaction)
		 23:	eij^2 (squared soft. length for i-j interaction)
		 24:	T (Kinetic energy of galaxy)
		 25:	E (Total energy of galaxy)
		 26:	vrms (rms velocity of galaxy)
		 27:	Tb (Kinetic energy of bound galaxy)
		 28:	Ub (potential energy of bound galaxy)
		 29:	Eb (total energy of bound galaxy)
		 30:	Mbnd (mass of bound galaxy)
		 31:	Tcm (kinetic energy of center of mass motion)
		 32:	DE/E (fractional change in total energy)
	 	 33:	DM/M (fractional change in mass)

		 34-40:	Not used
.fi
.SH LIMITATIONS
As defined by the PARAMETER statements,
the maximum number of particles is \fBNpmx\fP [50000],
with a maximum of \fBNgmx\fP [50] galaxies allowed. 
These can be easily changed by changing their declared values.
In addition, the length of the
different \fIparam\fP blocks is limited to
72 for character, 16 for logical, 12 for integer and 40 for real,
each per galaxy. These are fixed and cannot be changed without
violating this format.
.PP
Machine dependant FORTRAN binary format.
.SH BUGS
ANSI Fortran doesn't allow common blocks with characters mixed with 
real/integer/double precision.
.SH SEE ALSO
fsnapio(3NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), galmaker(1LAAC), snapformat(1LAAC)
.SH FILES
.ta +1i
.nf
usr/aguilar/galmaker	examples
snap.inc	The COMMON/SNAP/ definition
.fi
.SH VERSION 1
The format that predated this version 2 we call version 1, and was derived
from Josh Barnes \fI/SNAPSHOT/\fP format he used in the early 80s.
The following section explains his format:
.nf
.ta +0.5i +3.5i +0i +0i +0i
\fB
	CHARACTER*72 comment		!\fIgeneral commentary for init. cond.\fP
	INTEGER Np			!\fI# of points in simulation\fP
	REAL time			!\fItime for frame\fP
	INTEGER nframe			!\fI# of frame\fP

	REAL soften, m1, m2, mi,
	     e12, e1i, eij, Vrms, Tcross,
	     u, k, e
	REAL x(3,*),v(3,*)            	!\fIpart. lum, mass, pos. & vel.\fP

	COMMON /SNAPSHOT/ iseed,comment,Np,Ngals,nframe,time,
	*                  cparam,lparam,iparam,rparam,index,m,lum,x,v

\fP
.fi
The following snippet of code would have written the unformatted version
of this \fBSNAP\fP data:
.nf
\fB
     open(99, file = snapfile // 'SNAP_u.dat ', form='unformatted',status='new')

     write(99) iseed,comment,Np,Ngals,nframe,time,
                (cparam(i),i=1,Ngals),
                ((lparam(i,j),i=1,16),j=1,Ngals),
                ((iparam(i,j),i=1,12),j=1,Ngals),
                ((rparam(i,j),i=1,40),j=1,Ngals),
                (index(i),i=1,Np),(m(i),i=1,Np),
                (lum(i),i=1,Np),
                ((x(i,j),i=1,3),j=1,Np),((v(i,j),i=1,3),j=1,Np)

\fP
.fi
Reading this format is exactly the same. 
Note that the filename has a fixed
extension \fBSNAP_u.dat\fP for unformatted format, and an extension
\fBSNAP_f.dat\fP for the formatted version. To convert between these
two, see \fIsnapformat(1LAAC)\fP. 

.SH AUTHOR
Luis A. Aguilar
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
2/10/92  	Created   	Luis A. Aguilar			
21-nov-93	man5 created	PJT
14-jun-94	documented v1 and v2	PJT
.fi





