.TH TABLE 5NEMO "4 June 2003"
.SH NAME
table \- table format
.SH DESCRIPTION
A \fBtable\fP file is a simple ASCII text file, 
structured in rows and columns, with one row per line. 
Columns can be separated by spaces or tabs.
The number of columns per row does not have to be the same,
as long as the columns accessed are in the specified range
(although some programs, e.g. \fItablint(1NEMO)\fP may
put restrictions on this).
.PP
Comments can be entered by using the octothorpe ('\fB#\fP') symbol 
on the first character on a line.
Empty lines will generally be skipped too, and some programs
even skip lines starting with the ! or ; symbol. See also
\fItabcomment\fP for some other filtering techniques.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following listing is an example of a valid table:
.nf

    # This is the first line of the table
    # I    N     Q
    1.0   2.0   4.0
    # 2.0 3.0   5.0     bad data, commented out.
    3.0   5.1   6.32
    # End of table
    
.fi
Here is an example how to make a table from scratch. It contains 
one column, with numbers 1 through 100:
.nf
    nemoinp 1:100 newline=t > 100.tab
.fi
.SH OTHER TABLE FORMATS
Another popular table format is that of ESO/Midas, where all columns
are separated by TABs. The unix program \fIpaste(1)\fP will generally
put a TAB between the columns.
.PP
FITS uses the 'TABLE' (ascii tables) and BINTABLE (binary tables) format.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nemoinp(1NEMO), tabcomment(1NEMO), table(3NEMO), awk(1), paste(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
1-feb-93	document created  	PJT
4-jun-2003	various docs on other table formats	PJT
.fi
