.TH UNITS 5NEMO "17 January 2022"

.SH "NAME"
units \- various units used in simulations

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Most NEMO programs use the "virial" (sometimes also called
"N-Body" or "Henon" (1971) units) units as described by
Heggie & Mathieu (1986). We also list a few other common
units, and the value of the gravitational constant in these.
Notably some of the \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP descriptors use
other unit systems.
.PP
The gravitational constant is often set to unity in N-body codes, since
it saves a precious floating point operation!  For sake
of completeness, here are a few values of G in some other 'common'
unit systems, recalling that (G*m)/(r*v*v) is dimensionless:
.nf
.ta +1.2i +0.9i +1.2i +1.5i +1.4i +0.9i +0.9i

mass	pos	vel	G       	1/G     	time	"system"

g	cm    	cm/s	6.6732e-8  	1.49853e+07  	s   	(cgs)
kg	m 	m/s	6.6732e-11 	1.49853e+10	s    	(SI)

1.Msun	AU	km/s	886.8	1.128e-3	4.74yr	(planets)
1.Msun	AU	29.8 km/s	1	1	0.159yr	(planets)
1.Msun	AU	.	39.478	.	1yr	(planets)

1.Msun	pc   	km/s    	.           	2.32385e2	1e6.yr	(starcluster)
1.Msun	kpc   	km/s    	.          	2.32385e5	1e9.yr	[gravhopper]
1e10.Msun	10.kpc	100.km/s	.             	2.32385	1e8.yr	(galaxy)
1e10.Msun	1.kpc	1.km/s	43007.1	.	1e9.yr	[gadget] 
~2e4.Msun	kpc   	~990.km/s	1          	1	1e6.yr	(galaxy)
1e11.Msun	10.kpc	~97.8.km/s	4.497       	0.22237	1e8.yr	(galaxy)

.fi

.SH "UNITS"
For the purpose of comparison of results obtained by different authors,
it is very convenient if they share a common system of units. The following
system of units seems to find quite wide (if not universal) favor. The units
are such that:
.nf
            G = 1
            M = 1
            E = -1/4
	    
where G is the gravitational constant, M the total initial mass, and E the
initial energy. The corresponding units of mass, length and time are then

            U_m = M
            U_l = - G M^2 / (4E)
            U_t = G M^2.5 / (-4E)^1.5
(cf. Henon, 1971).

.fi
The choice for E may look odd, but corresponds to a virial radius R (harmonic
mean particles separation) equal to unity for a system in virial equilibrium.
In N-body work a somewhat different, actually N-dependant, system is sometimes
still used (cf. Aarseth 1972), but leads to a crossing time scale proportional
to N^(-1/2). This system is also unsuitable for galaxy simulations, where 
neither the number of stars nor the number of particles in the simulation
is relevant to the imortant dynamical timescales. There are of course
stellar dynamical calculations for which the above described units are
unsuitable, e.g. unbound systems or cosmological simulations.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Given a Plummer sphere in virial units
.nf
     mkplummer p100 100 seed=123
.fi
we can scale this to .... using
.nf
     snapscale p100 p100.gal
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
units(1NEMO), nemoinp(1NEMO)
.nf
      
Heggie, D.C. and Mathieu, R.D. 
\fIStandardized Units and Time Scales\fP, in:
\fIThe Use of Supercomputers in Stellar Dynamics\fP, ed. P. Hut and
S. McMillan. (1986, Spinger Verlag)

Henon, M. (1971) - https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1971Ap%26SS..14..151H/

NPL's United of Measurement webpage: http://www.npl.co.uk/npl/reference/

AstroTables: http://nedwww.ipac.caltech.edu/level5/tabular_info.html

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N-body_units
.fi
.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
7-may-96	Created  	PJT
18-aug-2022	Format/Updates	PJT
27-jan-2023	Henon reference	PJT
.fi
