.TH XVP 5NEMO "7 June 1994" 
.SH NAME
xvp, xvm \- direct access binary format for N-body data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBxvpread(model,filename,header,x,y,z,vx,vy,vz,pmass,ppot,ierr)\fP
\fBxvpwrite(model,filename,header,x,y,z,vx,vy,vz,pmass,ppot,ierr)\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBxvp\fP is a format-compatible \fIBalcells\fP extension to the \fBxvm\fP
format in use by \fIQuinn\fP to store fixed size N-body data using FORTRAN
direct access I/O. 
.PP
In the original \fBxmv\fP (\fIQuinn\fP) version
(3-dimensional) positions, velocities, and masses were stored, 
including a header, which describes the size of the upcoming data.
.PP
In the \fBxvp\fP \fIBalcells\fP-extension the
masses are stored in the header (assuming the masses come in up to 13 groups)
and the column which used to store the masses now contain
the potentials. 
.PP
Since this extension is annotated in the header,
the \fBxvp\fP format is upward compatible with the \fBxvm\fP format.
.SH FORMAT
The format consist of one header block, followed by many data blocks.
Each block (excluding the VMS case) has a size of \fI7*128*NOBYTES\fP
bytes, with all atomic data being floating point numbers with 
\fINOBYTES\fP bytes per number (being 4 or 8). 
.SH HEADER
The header consists of 128 real numbers,
with the following conventions (\fInew upward compatible ones may be added
in the future\fP):
.nf
.ta +5i
     header(1)=number of particles in this (and all subsequent) snapshot(s)
     header(2)=iteration number
     header(3)=time
     header(4)=total energy
     header(5)=total angular momentum
     header(6)=total mass
     header(8)=G (Newton's constant)
     header(9)=epsilon (the gravitational softening length)

     header(18)=1 if a satellite is present , 0 if not. 	| ???
     header(19)=ndim (only 3 is supported)

     header(20)=1 if two-galaxies model, 0 otherwise
     header(21)=ngal1+1  	| gal2 comes after gal1
     header(22)=mtot1
     header(23)=r0 galaxy 1 (half mass radius)
     header(24)=rmax galaxy 1 (initial rmax)
     header(25,26,27)= am(x,y,z) galaxy 1
     header(28)=mtot2
     header(29)=r0 galaxy 2 (half mass radius)
     header(30)=rmax galaxy 2 (initial rmax)
     header(31,32,33)= am(x,y,z) galaxy 2

     header(100) = 1         file contains xvp, not xvm, 0 otherwise
     header(101) = nmasses   number of body mass groups
     header(102) = n1        bodies 1:n1 have mass m1
     header(103) = m1        the body mass m1
     header(104) = n2        bodies n1+1:n2 have mass m2
     header(105) = m2
     header(106) = n3
     header(107) = m3        etc.    max 13 mass groups
     ...
     header(126) = n13
     header(127) = m13
	
     header(128)	| currently unused 

     header(129)	| remainder unused 
     ...
     header(896) 	| last header element
.fi
Note that formally up to 7*128 are available, 
but the last 6*128 are currently not in use.
.SH DATA
The data consist of records of 128 particles each, with positions, velocities
and an auxiliary (masses or potentials, as determined from the header)
.nf
    data(1,2,3)     positions (NDIM=3 assumed here)
    data(4,5,6)     velocities
    data(7)         auxilliary (mass/potential)
    data(8,9,10)    positions
    ... etc.
.fi
.SH BUGS
\fIxvp\fP multi-snapshot files must contain snapshots of equal size, so you
cannot concatenate files of different particle size.
.PP
The header has no record of \fINOBYTES\fP (4 or 8) or a version number (sic).
.PP
.PP
VMS may not be supported in NEMO.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nora(l), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Quinn, Marc Balcells, Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/nbody/io/xvpsnap.c	sample conversion code
~/usr/balcells/nora/{xvpread.f,xvpwrite.f}	sample I/O routines
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +2.0i +2.0i
25-may-94	documentation written    	PJT
.fi

