.TH YAPP 5NEMO "24 December 2019"
.SH NAME
yapp \- Yet Another Plotting Package
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fByapp\fP is NEMO's application programming interface \fIdefinition\fP
for a graphics device.
.PP
Various implementations exist for \fByapp\fP, some of which are listed below.
During installation one of them has been selected as your default
implemention, with which all yapp-based graphics programs (a few
programs, e.g. \fIxyzview(1NEMO)\fP) use other graphics device drivers).
Currently (2001) most used at the PGPLOT and PS implementations.

Hopefully one of them is close enough 
(or exactly) for what you want. Note that most of them
need to be linked (notable exceptions \fIyapp_null, yapp_ps, yapp_meta\fP)
with site dependant external libraries. For this, the environment
variable \fBYAPPLIB\fP needs to be defined. Most common graphics program
can then be compiled as follows:
.nf
    cc -o prog prog.c $NEMOLIB/libnemo.a $YAPPLIB -lm
.fi
normally set through the $NEMO/NEMORC.local file (see \fInemorc(8NEMO)\fP)
There are some
example $YAPP_XXX environment variables defined in the $NEMO/NEMORC
file.
.PP
Some yapp implementations allow you to select from
various devices. As we do not advertise interactive programs
very much, the keyword 'yapp=' or an environment variable
\fBYAPP\fP will be used to select a device and it's possible
options.
.SH AVAILABLE YAPP VERSIONS
.TP 24
\fByapp\fP
wrapper, which attempts (with or without some help) to include the
correct yapp_xxx.c version (see below).
.TP
\fByapp_agl	\fP
uses Trieste/ESO's AGL package.  \fINot implemented yet\fP.
.TP
\fByapp_cg		\fP
pure color graphics version for suncore (JEB)
.TP
\fByapp_cg_old\fP
slightly outdated color graphics (PSW & JEB).
.TP
\fByapp_cg_new\fP
??? seems to hang terminal (oct-90)
.TP
\fByapp_cgi	\fP
old 1986 experiment, uses CGI; must be outdated by now (PJT)
.TP
\fByapp_core	\fP
The old original one (JEB), uses suncore, can have optional
mouse interface (-DMOUSE) and retained segments (-DRETAINED).
Working on color interface (-DCOLOR), see also yapp_cg below.
.TP
\fByapp_meta	\fP
An ascii meta-file format.
.TP
\fByapp_mongo	\fP
for usage when mongo(87) is available. Uses
environment varibiable \fBYAPP\fP, initialized in the
\fIgetparam(3NEMO)\fP package, to select from a number
of devices.	(PJT)
.TP
\fByapp_null\fP
a stubbed list of all required and optional routines which gets
you going on a machine with no proper yapp implementation yet.
.TP
\fByapp_pgplot	\fP
uses Tim Pierson`s (Caltech) PGPLOT package. We now support PGPLOT V5
as well as an experimental version of CPGPLOT (PJT)
.TP
\fByapp_plplot	\fP
uses the U. Texas PLPLOT package, a PGPLOT lookalike written in C. (PJT)
.TP
\fByapp_ps		\fP
PostScript, merged with JEBs enhanced versions(PJT). Does not do color
yet.
.TP
\fByapp_sm	\fP
Super Mongo - not very good yet since sm doesn't have good
callable provisions.	(PJT)
.TP 
\fByapp_suntools\fP
Suntools version with enhanced cursor interaction; has optional
-DMOUSE, -DCOLOR and -DRETAINED and autodetection of window vs.
non-window mode under suntools. \fIdeprecated\fP.
.TP
\fByapp_sv\fP
SunView version, in so-called implicit dispatch mode. This version
is really only intended to create small images, to be saved in 
screendump 'frame's, which can be displayed with the sunview windows
version \fImoview(1NEMO)\fP.  \fIdeprecated\fP.
.TP
\fByapp_x11\fP
Based on a standalone, now modified to handle singleprecision real (float).
.SH BUGS
There are no good provisions to make sure a plot comes out in landscape or
portrait (e.g. plplot). Some devices have problems making sure that
the plot comes out square when it is meant to be square.
.PP
Treatment of colors, in particular what the background and foreground
color is, is not uniform. 
.SH PGPLOT
PGPLOT uses a number of environment variables that control the behavior
of the plotting device. The PGPLOT_DIR, PGPLOT_FONT and PGPLOT_LIB variables
(should) have been set via the normal NEMO procedure, but the following
environment variables can be useful (and confusing):
.nf
.ta +2i +1i
PGPLOT_BACKGROUND	n/a	0 is the background color ("black" for /xs)
PGPLOT_FOREGROUND	n/a	1 is the foreground color ("white" for /xs)

PGPLOT_GIF_WIDTH	850	pixels for /gif (interchange for /vgif)
PGPLOT_GIF_HEIGHT	680	pixels for /gif (i.e. 85 dpi)

PGPLOT_PPM_WIDTH	850	pixels for /ppm (interchange for /vppm)
PGPLOT_PPM_HEIGHT	680	pixels for /ppm (i.e. 85 dpi)

PGPLOT_PS_MARKERS	n/a	use "NO" if no postscript font for markers to be used
PGPLOT_PS_COLOR		n/a	color mode
PGPLOT_PS_WIDTH		7800	width in milli-inches (these are for 8.5x11 inches)
PGPLOT_PS_HEIGHT	10500	height in milli-inches
PGPLOT_PS_HOFFSET	350	horizontal offset from bottom left
PGPLOT_PS_VOFFSET	250	vertical offset from bottom left

PGPLOT_PS_EOF		n/a	EOF marker, useful for apple laserwriters (^D)
PGPLOT_PS_BBOX		n/a	if set to "MAX", max bounding box written, else
PGPLOT_IDENT		n/a	if set, user name, date and time written in bottom right corner
PGPLOT_PS_DRAW_BBOX

.fi
For X windows drivers (e.g. /xs and /xw) a number of X resources are used
(see \fIxrdb(1)\fP), e.g.
.nf

!       settings for pgplot
pgxwin.Win.geometry: WIDTHxHEIGHT+X+Y
pgxwin.Win.iconGeometry: +X+Y

.fi
if you store them in a file ~/.Xdefaults, they can be merged into your X session as follows, after you make sure
any old pgplot xwin_server has been killed:
.nf
    xkill pgxwin_server
    xrdb -merge ~/.Xdefaults
.fi
.SH PLPLOT
Like PGPLOT, PLPLOT can also pick different graphics output devices, specified via the usual yapp= system
keyword, followed by a filename for the non-interactive devices.
Here are a few, though specifying yapp=help should give the list of currently compiled
devices.  For a full list see e.g.
http://plplot.sourceforge.net/docbook-manual/plplot-html-5.15.0/devices.html
.nf
.ta +1i
png,FILE.png	PNG
pdfcairo,FILE.pdf	PDF (cairo)
pdf,FILE.pdf	PDF (Haru)
svg,FILE.svg	SVG
xwin
tk
.fi
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
NEMO/src/kernel/yapp	various yapp_* implementations
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes, Peter Teuben
.SH SEE ALSO
catps(1NEMO), catpgps(1NEMO), yapp(3NEMO)
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
16-aug-88	document written - some are premature!	PJT
16-nov-88	yapp_suntools added             	PJT
26-oct-90	updated outdated documentation  	PJT
11-nov-94	added yapp_meta 	PJT
28-mar-04	added some useful PGPLOT info	PJT
.fi
