.TH CONTOUR 3NEMO "6 May 1995"
.SH NAME
contour \- simple contour routine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <matdef.h>
.PP
\fBcontour (a, nx, ny, z, nc, xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax, lineto)
real *a, z[], xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax;
int nx, ny, nc;
proc lineto;
.PP
contour_setdet(mode,value)
int mode;
real value;\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcontour\fP expects a two dimensional matrix, contiguous in
memory in either C or FORTRAN definition (\fImatdef(5NEMO)\fP), pointed
to by \fBa\fP. The size of the matrix is \fBnx\fP by \fBny\fP pixels.
There must be \fBnc\fP sorted contour levels supplied in the array
\fBz\fP. The Plotting area is from \fBxmin,ymin\fP to \fBxmax,ymax\fP.
.PP
\fIcontour\fP needs external \fIrelocate(x,y)\fP and \fIdraw()\fP routines
which do the actual line drawing. In NEMO can be supplied by
the \fIyapp(3NEMO)\fP interface, or have to defined in the calling program.
In such the linestyle of the contours can be externally set.
An externally defined function 
\fIvoid lineto(real x0, real y0, real x1, real y1)\fP must be supplied to
provide the transformation from world to plot coordinates, since
contour has no knowledge of the plotting world.
.PP
\fIcontour_setdef\fP defines if contours need to ignore points which
are near undefined value. If \fImode=1\fP, the \fIvalue\fP will be taken
as the undefined value. When this routine is never called
\fIcontour\fP doesn't know about undefined value, i.e. \fImode=0\fP.
.SH BUGS
Contour levels must be sorted in increasing order.
.PP
The MATDEF stuff could mirror your images if not used consistently.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +1.5i
~/src/image/misc	contour.c 
.fi
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
xx-jun-87	original version    	PJT
1-feb-89	FORDEF/CDEF implemented -	PJT
10-sep-90	Added routine contour_setdef	PJT
6-may-95	new contour() with lineto now formally in NEMO 	PJT
.fi

