.TH ERROR 3NEMO "8 December 2001"
.SH NAME
error, fatal, warning, recover, stop \- handle errors and warnings and system exit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <stdinc.h>\fP
.PP
\fBvoid error(string format, ... )\fP
\fBvoid fatal(string format, ... )\fP
\fBvoid warning(string format, arg ... )\fP
\fBvoid recover(proc cleanup)\fP
\fBvoid stop(int lev)\fP
\fBvoid set_exit_level(int lev)\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIerror\fP prints out an error 
string to \fIstderr\fP and calls \fIstop\fP, which normally
exit's the program (see also \fIexit(3)\fP). A program
can have recoverable errors by supplying the pointer to
a user defined function,  \fBcleanup()\fP, to \fIrecover\fP.
This functionality is 
similar to the \fIsignal(2)\fP concept. No arguments can
be given to the \fBcleanup()\fP function. After \fIcleanup\fP
has been called the program continues. (hmmm)
Any non-zero \fIerrno\fP will also be reported.
.PP
\fIfatal\fP is like error, except calls \fIabort(3)\fP, which should
cause a core dump.
.PP
\fIwarning\fP prints out a warning string to \fIstderr\fP,
but always continues the program.
.PP
Each of these functions converts, formats,  and  prints  its
\fBargs\fP under control of the \fBformat\fP, as described in
\fIprintf(3)\fP.
.PP
When \fBdebug_level\fP is larger than 5 (see \fIgetparam(3NEMO)\fP)
\fIabort(3)\fP is called, instead of \fIexit(3)\fP. This should create
a coredump, if your \fIcoredumpsize\fP is large enough. 

.PP
\fIstop\fP exits to the system, similar to \fIexit(3)\fP, but
performs some standard NEMO cleanup functions, for example, if
the error count is non-zero (using the \fBerror=\fP system keyword,
see getparam(3NEMO)), this function will return to the caller.
If not, it exits to the sytem, using \fIexit(3)\fP, but also properly
closes NEMOs parameter files using \fPfiniparam(3NEMO)\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
dprintf(3NEMO), getparam(3NEMO), exception(3NEMO), exit(3), abort(3), varargs(3), stdarg(3)
.PP
http://www.theiling.de/projects/liberror.html
.nf
http://www.flexiguided.de/publications.errhdl.en.html
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua Barnes, Peter Teuben
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
xx-xxx-86	Created in the dark ages	Josh
4-oct-90	Upgraded with warning() and recover()	Peter
29-oct-90	abort for large enough debug_level	Peter
5-mar-94	documented stop                     	peter
8-dec-01	added errno reporting, updated man page  	peter
.fi
