.TH FILESTRUCT 3NEMO "7 April 2012"
.SH NAME
filestruct \- primitives for structured binary file I/O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <stdinc.h>\fP
\fB#include <filestruct.h>\fP
.PP
\fBbool get_tag_ok(str, tag)\fP
\fBvoid get_data(str, tag, typ, dat, dimN, ..., dim1, 0)\fP
\fBvoid get_data_coerced(str, tag, typ, dat, dimN, ..., dim1, 0)\fP
\fBstring get_string(str, tag)\fP
\fBvoid get_set(str, tag)\fP
\fBvoid get_tes(str, tag)\fP
\fBvoid put_data(str, tag, typ, dat, dimN, ..., dim1, 0)\fP
\fBvoid put_string(str, tag, msg)\fP
\fBvoid put_set(str, tag)\fP
\fBvoid put_tes(str, tag)\fP
.PP
\fBvoid get_data_set(str, tag, typ, dat, dimN, ..., dim1, 0)\fP
\fBvoid get_data_ran(str, tag, dat, offset, length)\fP
\fBvoid get_data_blocked(str, tag, dat, length)\fP
\fBvoid get_data_tes(str, tag)\fP
\fBvoid put_data_set(str, tag, typ, dat, dimN, ..., dim1, 0)\fP
\fBvoid put_data_ran(str, tag, dat, offset, length)\fP
\fBvoid put_data_blocked(str, tag, dat, length)\fP
\fBvoid put_data_tes(str, tag)\fP
.PP
\fBstring get_type(str, tag)\fP
\fBint *get_dims(str, tag)\fP
\fBint get_dlen(str, tag)\fP
.PP
\fBvoid strclose(str)\fP
\fBbool qsf(str)\fP
.PP
\fBstream str;\fP
\fBstring tag;\fP
\fBint typ;\fP
\fBbyte *dat;\fP
\fBint dimN, ..., dim1;\fP
\fBstring msg;\fP
\fBint offset, length\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines provide a simple yet reasonably general mechanism for
the structured input and output of binary data.  A structured binary
file may be viewed as a sequence of tagged data items
(very much like the more modern XLM files); special symbols
are introduced to group items hierarchically into sets.  Data items
are typically scalar values or homogeneous arrays constructed from the
elementary C data types: \fBchar, short, int, long, float, double\fP.
\fIfilestruct.h\fP defines the following symbolic names for these types:
.TP 12
\fBCharType\fP
standard C characters, assumed printable.
.TP 12
\fBByteType\fP
like C characters, but unsigned and unprintable.
.TP 12
\fBAnyType\fP
anything at all; see below.
.TP 12
\fBShortType\fP
standard C short integers.
.TP 12
\fBIntType\fP
standard C integers.
.TP 12
\fBLongType\fP
standard C long integers.
.TP 12
\fBHalfpType\fP
16 bit floating point half precision (non-standard, cf. EXR)
.TP 12
\fBFloatType\fP
standard C floating point.
.TP 12
\fBDoubleType\fP
standard C double-precision.
.PP
The first three types are all synonyms for \fBCharType\fP, but the
meanings conveyed are quite different.  \fBCharType\fP is reserved
for strings of legible characters, while \fBByteType\fP identifies
data in 8-bit binary chunks.  \fBAnyType\fP, while operationally
identical, implies that data (typically in an array) may not
naturally divide on 8-bit boundaries; this type currently provides
an escape hatch for structure I/O (see the example below).

\fIget_tag_ok(str, tag)\fP is used to determine if a subsequent
\fIget_data()\fP, \fIget_string()\fP, or \fIget_set()\fP call will
succeed in finding an item named \fItag\fP in the structured binary
input stream \fIstr\fP.  The algorithm used to determine this depends
on whether the structured input point is at top level or within a set.
At top level, the next item must match the specified \fItag\fP.
Within a set, the input point is effectively rewound to the first item
of the set, and the entire set is scanned for the \fItag\fP.
\fIget_tag_ok()\fP returns \fBFALSE\fP on end of file.

\fIget_data(str, tag, typ, dat, dimN, ..., dim1, 0)\fP
transfers data from a structured binary input stream \fIstr\fP to a
scalar or homogeneous array at address \fIdat\fP.  First an item named
\fItag\fP is found with the algorithm described above.  The type of
the item is checked against \fItyp\fP, and the dimensions (if any) are
checked against arguments \fIdimN, ..., dim1\fP.  If they match, the
item data is copied to the specified address.

\fIget_data_coerced(str, tag, typ, dat, dimN, ..., dim1, 0)\fP
performs the same function as \fIget_data()\fP except that the types
of the item may be \fIFloatType\fP and the type specified by the
parameter \fItyp\fP may be \fIDoubleType\fP  or the other way around.
If \fItyp\fP matches the type of the item, this function is identical
to \fIget_data()\fP; if a conversion other than Float->Double or
Double->Float is attempted, an error is signaled.

\fIget_string(str, tag)\fP searches as above for an item named
\fItag\fP, which must contain a null-terminated array of characters.
The data is copied to space allocated using \fImalloc\fP(3) and a
pointer is returned.

\fIget_set(str, tag)\fP searches as above for a set named \fItag\fP
(in fact, the \fItag\fP is carried by a special symbol used to mark
the start of the set).  The contents of this set are then taken as the
scope of subsequent \fIget_tag_ok()\fP, \fIget_data()\fP,
\fIget_string()\fP and \fIget_set()\fP calls.

\fIget_tes(str, tag)\fP terminates the scan of the current input set,
and returns to the scope which was in effect before the set was
accessed.  If \fItag\fP is not NULL, it must match the tag of the
corresponding \fIget_set()\fP call.  When input is from the top level,
the input pointer is left before the next item in the input stream.
(Note: \fItes\fP is set backwards).

\fIput_data(str, tag, typ, dat, dimN, ..., dim1, 0)\fP
is effectively the inverse of \fIget_data()\fP above: the data
pointed to by \fIdat\fP, which is of type \fItyp\fP and dimensions
\fIdimN, ..., dim1\fP, is emitted to the structured output stream
\fIstr\fP as an item named \fItag\fP.

\fIput_string(str, tag, msg)\fP is the inverse of \fIget_string()\fP
above.

\fIput_set(str, tag)\fP begins the output of a set named \fItag\fP.
The contents of the set are supplied by subsequent calls to
\fIput_data()\fP, \fIput_string()\fP, and \fIput_set()\fP.

\fIput_tes(str, tag)\fP terminates the output of a set.

\fIstrclose(str)\fP is the preferred way to close binary streams used
in the above operations; it need not be called unless the stream must
be explicitly closed (for example, for later reuse). In case the stream
was opened as a special one (e.g. a scratch stream, see 
\fIstropen(3NEMO)\fP), \fIstrclose\fP is the only means to properly
clean up.

\fIqsf(str)\fP queries if an input
stream is a binary structured one. Since this
requires data to be read (which may be needed later on), this function
cannot be used with pipes. \fIqsf\fP always returns FALSE in this case.
Also, it is left to the application programmer to properly
place the filepointer (\fIrewind(3)\fP) in case that stream has to be
used for input.

\fIget_data_set\fP and \fPget_data_tes\fP bracket random data access,
which is achieved by \fIget_data_ran\fP. \fIoffset\fP and \fIlength\fP
are both in units of the item-length. They have a pipe-safe interface
called \fIget_data_blocked\fP, where the I/O must occur sequentially.

\fIget_type\fP, 
\fIget_dims\fP,  and \fIget_dlen\fP return the type, 
dimension array (allocated and zero terminated!), 
and data-length in bytes for the whole item.
These routines should be rarely needed by programmers though.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following code fragment reads and later writes some data to
structured binary files.
.nf
\ \ \ \ 
\ \ \ \ \fBstream instr, outstr;\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBint nobj;\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBdouble time, mass[4096], phase[4096][2][3];\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \fB*\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \fB*\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBget_set(instr, "SnapShot");\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBget_set(instr, "Parameters");\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBget_data(instr, "Time", DoubleType, &time, 0);\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBget_data(instr, "Nobj", IntType, &nobj, 0);\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBget_tes(instr,"Parameters");\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBget_set(instr, "Particles");\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBif (get_tag_ok(instr, "Mass"))\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \fBget_data(instr, "Mass", DoubleType, mass, nobj, 0);\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBget_data(instr, "PhaseSpace", DoubleType, phase,\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \0\0\0\0\0\0\fBnobj, 2, 3, 0);\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBget_tes(instr, "Particles");\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBget_tes(instr, "SnapShot");\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \fB*\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \fB*\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBput_set(outstr, "SnapShot");\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBput_set(outstr, "Parameters");\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBput_data(outstr, "Time", DoubleType, &time, 0);\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBput_data(outstr, "Nobj", IntType, &nobj, 0);\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBput_tes(outstr, "Parameters");\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBput_set(outstr, "Particles");\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBput_data(outstr, "Mass", DoubleType, mass, nobj, 0);\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBput_data(outstr, "PhaseSpace", DoubleType, phase,\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \0\0\0\0\0\0\0\fBnobj, 2, 3, 0);\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBput_tes(outstr, "Particles");\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBput_tes(outstr, "SnapShot");\fP
\ \ \ \ 
.fi
Notes: the first two calls to \fIget_data()\fP and \fIput_data()\fP
illustrate the I/O of scalar data: although no dimensions are listed,
the terminating \fB0\fP (zero) must appear in the arg list.  Later
calls show how arrays are specified.  The \fBMass\fP item will only be
input if it appears in the \fBParticles\fP set.

Structures which do not contain pointer data can be handled using the
\fBAnyType\fP, but with somewhat limited functionality: a structure of
type \fBfoo\fP is treated as an array of \fBsizeof(foo)\fP objects of
type \fBAnyType\fP.  This means, alas, that the contents of structures
are hidden to utilities like \fItsf\fP(1). The following example shows
how to handle structures:
.nf
\ \ \ \ 
\ \ \ \ \fBstruct foo {\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \fBint erupt;\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \fBchar actor;\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \fBdouble trouble;\fP
\ \ \ \ \fB} footab[64];\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \fB*\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \fB*\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBget_data(instr, "FooTab", AnyType, footab,\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \0\0\0\0\0\0\0\fB64, sizeof(struct foo), 0);\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \fB*\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \fB*\fP
\ \ \ \ \fBput_data(outstr, "FooTab", AnyType, footab,\fP
\ \ \ \ \ \ \0\0\0\0\0\0\0\fB64, sizeof(struct foo), 0);\fP
\ \ \ \ 
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exceptional conditions (eg, unexpected EOF), invalid arguments (eg,
types out of range) and low-level catastrophies (eg, running out of
memory) generate messages via \fIerror\fP(3), which will, in general,
return the program to the operating system.
This error-checking is
implemented with the goal of freeing applications programmers from
the responsibility of checking for I/O errors other than end-of-file.
.SH NOTES
The library will delay reading large data-items in memory and only
store a pointer to their location until it is really needed via
one of the get_data() routines.
.SH CAVEATS
Whenever pipes are used, all data is read into memory, as opposed to
being deferred for input.
This may lead to large memory consuption. 
.PP
random access can currently only take place in one item
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes, Lyman P. Hurd, Peter Teuben
.SH SEE ALSO
filestruct(5NEMO), \fINEMO Users/Programmers Guide\fP
.P
http://www.openexr.com/about.html#features  (half precision floating point)
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +2.0i +2.0i
4-Apr-87	original implementation		JEB
30-Aug-87	type coersion, deferred input	LPH
16-Apr-88	new types, operators, etc	JEB
16-May-92	random access to data   	PJT
5-mar-94	documented qsf          	PJT
2-jun-05	added blocked I/O		PJT
.fi
