.TH FILE_SIZE 3NEMO "21 September 2003"
.SH NAME
nemo_file_size, nemo_file_time, nemo_file_lines \- get size (in bytes/lines) of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B int nemo_file_size(name)
.B char *name;
.PP
.B int nemo_file_time(name)
.B char *name;
.PP
.B int nemo_file_lines(name, deflen)
.B char *name
.B int deflen
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fInemo_file_size\fP can be used to check for the existence of
a file. It returns, as a non-negative number, the file size in
bytes. If the file is not found, or an error was detected 
in the \fIstat(2)\fP call, -1 is returned and errno is set
to indicate the error. The file must be a regular file, not part
of a pipe \fIstdin/out\fP stream.
.PP
\fInemo_file_time\fP is simular to \fInemo_file_size\fP., except it returns
the age of a file in seconds, since 1970.0 in the  usual fashion
(see also \fIstat(2)\fP).
.PP
\fInemo_file_lines\fP counts the number of lines in a text file but 
counting the number of occurences of a newline. This routine
will hence not work correctly on MSDOS. Also, the file must 
be a proper file, as detected with \fIisatty(3)\fP.
A hint, \fBdefline\fP can be given, to simplify use in calling programs.
A positive number means that both a pipe and file will return this
number (and hence possibly not read enough). Zero will force computation
of the number of lines by scanning over the file, which can only be 
done for true files, and is expensive.
Pipes will use the MAXLINES (see stdinc.h, normally 10000)
macro. For negatives values, pipes will use \fB-deflen\fP, whereas
files will do the expensive computation.
.SH NAMESPACE
Earlier versions did not have the name \fInemo_\fP prepended, 
until some library was using the same name as ours....
.SH BUGS
If \fIstropen(3NEMO)\fP is used to open the file, \fIisatty(3)\fP
does not properly report the file status anymore.
.SH SEE ALSO
stat(2), isatty(3), stropen(3NEMO)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.0i
~/src/kernel/cores  	file_size.c file_size.3
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
8-feb-90	V1.0 created for SUN's	PJT
25-nov-90	V1.1 doc written for earlier released file_lines  	PJT
7-jun-96	documented outstanding (nov93) argument change in file_lines	pjt
24-oct-97	added file_time()	PJT
21-sep-03	changed meaning of deflen in nemo_file_lines	PJT
.fi
