.TH GETPARAM 3NEMO "24 November 2007"
.SH NAME
getXparam, hasvalue, isaparam, initparam, finiparam, stop \- main startup and command line processing.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdinc.h>
.B #include <getparam.h>
.PP
string defv[]={
	"key1=val1\\n   Example help for key1",
	"key2=val2\\n	Example help for key2",
	"VERSION=1.0\\n 30-apr-2002 pjt",
	NULL,
};

string usage="Example usage for program";
.fi
string cvsid="$Id:
$";
.nf
.PP
.B void initparam(string *argv, string *defv)
.B void finiparam(void)
.PP
.B void stop(int level)
.PP
.B string getparam(string name)
.B int getiparam(string name)
.B long getlparam(string name)
.B double getdparam(string name)
.B bool getbparam(string name)
.PP
.B string *getargv(int *argc)
.PP
.B int indexparam(string basename, int idx)
.B string getparam_idx(string basename,int idx)
.B int getiparam_idx(string basename,int idx)
.B long getlparam_idx(string basename,int idx)
.B double getdparam_idx(string basename,int idx)
.B bool getbparam_idx(string basename,int idx)
.PP
.B void putparam(string name,string value)
.B void promptparam(string name,string prompt)
.PP
.B bool hasvalue(string name)
.B bool isaparam(string name)
.B bool updparam(string name)

.B int getparamstat(string);

.B extern int error_level;
.B extern int debug_level;
.B extern int yapp_level;
.B extern int help_level;
.PP
    undocumented:
.B      _bell_level
.B      _history
.B      _review_flag
.B      _yapp_dev
.B      _yapp_string
.B      _help_string
.B      _argv_string
.PP

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions provide a simple and uniform mechanism for 
command line processing (see also nemomain(3NEMO) for
an even simpler approach). Input as well
as output (storage) of selected parameters can be controlled via
command line parameters.
First, \fIinitparam\fP is called to set up values associated with a
set of possible keyword names; 
after this \fIgetparam\fP and any of its relatives may be called
to access and/or parse the value associated with a specified 
keyword. \fIfiniparam\fP  should be called before the program
ends, to ensure any outstanding requests are dealt with
(e.g. writing updated keyword files, see HELP and DEBUG below),
or optionally complain about unprocessed command line arguments.
Output of parameters is described in \fIoutparam(3NEMO)\fP.
.PP
\fIinitparam\fP is called with two arguments:
the argument vector
\fIargv\fP which is passed to \fImain\fP, and a similar vector
\fIdefv\fP which determines the set of legal keyword names and their
default values.
More precisely, \fIdefv\fP is of the form
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBstring defv[] = { "\fIname\fP=\fIvalue\fP\\n\fIhelp\fP", . . ., "VERSION=x.y", NULL };\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
\fIinitparam\fP determines a value for each \fIname\fP in \fIdefv\fP
by scanning the command line arguments in \fIargv\fP, any values supplied
in a keyword file (see below) and finally adopting the value supplied by
\fIdefv\fP if no other value can be found. Note the recommended 
(but not enforced)
usage of the \fBVERSION\fP keyword; this version ID will be used
to tag the history of datafiles which were created by programs, and 
will also warn users when outdated keyword files are used (see below).
.PP
Arguments specified in \fIargv\fP are matched with names specified in
\fIdefv\fP either one of two ways.
Those appearing to the left of the first argument containing an embedded
"=" sign are \fImatched by position\fP: the first such argument is associated
with the first name listed in \fIdefv\fP, and so on; it is an error if
more arguments are supplied in \fIargv\fP than names are supplied in
\fIdefv\fP.
The remaining arguments must all be of the form
"\fIname\fP=\fIvalue\fP", and are \fImatched by keyword\fP: \fIname\fP
must appear in \fIdefv\fP, and \fIvalue\fP is associated with \fIname\fP.
It is an error to specify more than one \fIvalue\fP for a given \fIname\fP.
If getparam is compiled with MINMATCH, keyword names are also matched in
minimum match mode.
.PP
An exception to commandline parsing is made for any arguments that
follow the standalone command line argument
"--". The function \fIgetargv()\fP can be used to get access
to any arguments that follow (and including) "--". The returned
array simply points into the original \fIchar **argv\fP, but starts
at the location of "--". The returned \fIargc\fP therefore only 
counts the number of arguments after  (and including) "--", and thus
making argv[0] be "--".
.PP
Depending on a user specified \fBhelp_level\fP (see below) parameters may also
be set by reading them from a keyword file. The keyword file is unique for
each program, and has the name "\fIprogram\fP\fB.def\fP". Although there
is some control over the directory in which these keyword files should
be located (\fB$NEMODEF\fP, but more on that later), 
it is dangerous to use keyword files during multiple sessions since
NEMO does not use a file locking mechanism.
Command line keyword values are always favored over values from a keyword file.
.PP
Once \fIinitparam\fP has returned, the value associated with a \fIname\fP
may be obtained (as a \fBstring\fP) by \fIgetparam\fP, or directly 
converted to an
\fBint\fP, \fBlong\fP, \fBdouble\fP, or \fBbool\fP by the functions
\fIgetiparam\fP, \fIgetlparam\fP, \fIgetdparam\fP, and \fIgetbparam\fP
respectively.
The latter recognizes the digit "1" or any string starting with one of
"tTyY" as TRUE, and "0" or any string starting with one of "fFnN" as FALSE.
All the \fIgetXparam\fP function can do simple parsing of expressions,
see \fInemoinp(3NEMO)\fP for some extended rules. Also note that 
\fIgetparam\fP returns a string into private space, that should not
be modified or freed! An single parameter
integer that starts with the \fB0x\fP string, can also be parsed
as a hexdecimal value (see \fIstrtol(3)\fP).
.PP
\fBgetparamstat\fP is currently only available to provide ZENO compatibility,
it currently triggers a call to \fIerror(3NEMO)\fP when called.
.PP
As a special case, the contents of \fIargv\fP[0], which is the name used
to invoke the process, are associated with the keyword name \fBargv0\fP.
This is useful when reporting errors from library routines which may
have no other way of determining what program called them; for example,
.PP
.RS
.nf
  \fBprintf("sqrt in %\|s: negative arg\\n", getparam("argv0"));\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
could be used to print an error message from a square-root procedure,
giving the name of the program in which the error occured. The macro
\fPgetargv0()\fP, defined in getparam.h, can also be used for this,
instead of called getparam().
This technique is used by the routine,
\fIerror(3NEMO)\fP; it reports the program name in
square brackets before the string is output. 
.PP
The optional \fBusage\fP and \fBcvsid\fP strings, that will need to
be defined by the user, can be
queried with the \fBhelp=u\fP and \fBhelp=I\fP options.
.SH REQUIRED ARGUMENTS
Arguments with default values (as listed in \fIdefv\fP) of "\|???"
are required; \fIinitparam\fP will print an informative message and
quit if no value for such an argument can be obtained from \fIargv\fP.
This feature is handy for things which must be specified or for which
no reasonable default exists.
.SH VERSION
It is good (NEMO) programming practice to give your program a
VERSION id. We refer to this as the \fIinternal\fP VERSION
id. The NEMO technique has historically been by adding
it as the last keyword, \fBVERSION\fP, in upper case.  Its value
should be of the form \fBx.y\fP, where \fBx\fP is the major
version number, and \fBy\fP the minor version number. Sometimes
a subversion labeled \fBa, b, c, ...\fP has been added. 
.PP
Not only does this enable the running task to warn users if
outdated keyword files are used, but also it provides an automated
way to label the data history with the version of the program used
to generate that data. A minor version number conflict will result
in a warning message, but a major one will result in a fatal error
message. If your program has changed data format, or keywords
have changed meaning or name, it is adviced to change the major 
version number.
.PP
The \fIexternal\fP VERSION id is the id stored in some
external keyword database, (such as the commandline or
a keyword file), that is supplied to the running task.
This would make it possible for 
programs to refuse execution if the internal and 
external VERSION id do not match. We do not currently employ this
technique. Most NEMO programs have a section labeled \fBUPDATE HISTORY\fP
in which old version ID's are labeled by time, comment and author.
.SH INDEXED KEYWORDS
The \fBindexparam\fP and \fBgetparam_idx\fP family provides one way
of access to indexed keywords. Indexed keywords are defined in the \fBdefv\fP vector
by a basename that ends in with the \fB#\fP symbol, which can at runtime
be replaced by any set of non-negative integers, e.g. \fBnaxis#\fP can be used
to for example define \fBnaxis1=10\fP, \fBnaxis4=4\fP
(note the index is actually 0 based). It is up to the
programmer to decipher missing elements (e.g. using \fBisaparam\fP or
\fBindexparam\fP).
.PP
\fIindexparam(basename,-1)\fP returns the largest index that was found,
\fIindexparam(basename,-2)\fP returns 0 if the keyword is not an indexed
keyword, and  \fIindexparam(basename,idx)\fP, for \fIidx >= 0\fP,
will check existence (1=true) for a specific index. 
.SH HELP FUNCTIONS
Besides interpreting the command line, \fIinitparam\fP provides some
assistance to the user via an additional argument (in addition to those
defined in \fIdefv\fP), namely
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBhelp=\fIoption\fP,\fIoption\fP,...\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
If this argument, which must be specified by name, appears in \fIargv\fP,
\fIinitparam\fP will generate some helpful information before returning.
Possible options include
.TP 18n
\fBa\fP
\- print program name and command line arguments,
.br
.ns
.TP 18n
\fBp,k\fP
\- print program name and all parameter values,
.br
.ns
.TP 18n
\fBd,v\fP
\- print program name and default values,
.br
.ns
.TP 18n
\fBn\fP
\- print newlines after every parameter/default values,
.br
.ns
.TP 18n
\fBo\fP
\- show output keywords (see \fIoutparam(3NEMO)\fP)
.br
.ns
.TP 18n
\fBc\fP
\- show CPU usage: clock, user, system, child-user, child-system and cpu-tick-0
.br
.ns
.TP 18n
\fBq\fP
\- exit after other help requests.
.br
.ns
.TP 18n
\fBu\fP
\- show usage string
.br
.ns
.TP 18n
\fBh\fP
\- show key and help strings
.br
.ns
.TP 18n
\fBt\fP
\- show help as MIRIAD doc file (expert mode)
.br
.ns
.TP 18n
\fBt\fP
\- show help as KHOROS pane file (expert mode)
.br
.ns
.TP 18n
\fBi\fP
\- show some internal variables of the user interface (expert mode)
.PP
These options must be abbreviated to one character.
For example,
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBhelp\fP=\fBd,q\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
will print defaults and then quit (actually, the comma is not needed).
.PP
This feature may be disabled by including an entry for \fBhelp\fP in
\fIdefv\fP, in which case help processing is left to the applications
program (not recommended).
.PP
An environment variable \fBHELP\fP or the system keyword \fBhelp=\fP
can be set to a non-zero number to change to
various levels of interactive input if implemented.
.SH OUTPUT KEYS
The system keyword \fBoutkeys=\fP\fIkey1,key2,...\fP controls which 
pre-defined output keys (see \fIoutparam(3NEMO)\fP) are going to 
output to NEMO's persistent global keyword database.
.SH DEBUGGING
The system keyword \fBdebug=\fP\fIdebug_level\fP is checked
for by the \fIinitparam\fP call. It sets the \fBdebug_level\fP to the
requested value. Any calls to \fIdprintf(3NEMO)\fP will only
be send to the standard error output device,(\fIstderr\fP), if
\fBdebug\fP is less or equal than \fBdebug_level\fP. Any initial
setting of \fBdebug_level\fP is also done through an environment variable
\fBDEBUG\fP, but overriden by the \fBdebug=\fP keyword.
.SH FILES
.ta +1i
.nf
~/src/kernel/io   	getparam.c 
~/src/kernel/cores	error.c (stop)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
environ(5), dprintf(3NEMO), error(3NEMO), nemoinp(3NEMO), nemomain(3NEMO), outparam(3NEMO)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complains via \fIerror(3NEMO)\fP or the \fIlocal_error()\fP function
about extra arguments, unknown arguments,  etc.  This will generally result
in a stopped program.
.SH BUGS
The code to access \fIenviron\fP has only been implemented for the system
environment variables \fBDEBUG, YAPP, HISTORY, BELL, REVIEW, ERROR, ARGV\fP 
and \fBHELP\fP. 
.PP
Some undocumented features. The \fINEMO Users Guide\fP is often
more complete.
.PP
A key-less parameter that contains an '=' sign confuses the parser and will
most likely complain about an unknown parameter. E.g. "i%%128==0"
will return \fIParameter "i%128" unknown\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here are some examples of usage of such a user interface. Assume we have
a program \fBp\fP, which has keywords \fBa\fP, \fBb\fP and \fBc\fP, of
which \fBc\fP is an indexed keyword
.nf
% p help=
p a=1 b=2 c#= VERSION=0.1

% p help=h
a                : keyword a [1]
b                : keyword b [2]
c#               : indexed keyword c []
VERSION          : PJT [0.1]

% p a=2
% p c2=1 c0=1.2

% mkplummer . 1000000 help=c
CPU_USAGE mkplummer : 7.84    6.99 0.42  0.00 0.00  6202936

.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua Barnes, Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +3.5i
xx-nov-86	created                         	Joshua Barnes
16-oct-87	add system keyword host=        	Peter Teuben
9-mar-88	add system keyword debug=       	PJT
21-apr-88	interactive input                	PJT
24-nov-88	editor mode in help=              	PJT
6-mar-89	added nemoinp parsing of getXparam	PJT
28-nov-94	V3 rewrite, many new features, deleted some others	PJT
12-feb-95	added updparam
20-jan-02	re-implemented indexed keywords			PJT
12-jul03	added getargv()		PJT
13-may-04	added help=c	PJT
29-dec-04  	added help=I and documented CVSID	PJT
.fi
