.TH GRID 3NEMO "5 November 1993"
.SH NAME
inil_grid, inia_grid, inip_grid, index_grid, value_grid -
various (1D) gridding routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B
#include <grid.h>
.PP
.B void inil_grid(g, ng, gmin, gmax)
.B void inia_grid(g, na, a)
.B void inip_grid(g, ng, fmin, fmax, f)
.PP
.B int index_grid(g, x)
.B real value_grid(g, i)
.PP
.B Grid *g;
.B int ng, na;
.B real gmin, gmax, fmin, gmax, x, i;
.B rproc f;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIgrid\fP are a set of routines to aid in simple 1 dimensional gridding
problems.
The routines are written in C but in 
an object-oriented fashion as to isolate the user from the internal
datastructure. The \fBGrid\fP can (and should) be treated as an
opaque datastructure. All information should be obtained through interface
routines.
.PP
\fIiniX_grid\fP is used to set up a grid. A grid can be
monotonically increasing as well as decreasing. (X=l linear grid,
X=a array defined grid, X=p procedure defined grid)
.PP
\fIindex_grid\fP returns the (C) index onto the grid, and is a number
in the range 0 to N-1. -1 is returned if the requested value is outside
the grid. Both edges of the grid are considered part of the grid,
where rounding occurs towards the \fBgmin\fB ('left') value
(see \fIfloor(3M)\fP).
Only for the last grid-cell (the 'right' grid cell, with index \fBn-1\fP)
both edges are considered part of the grid-cell.
.PP
\fIvalue_grid\fP returns the physical value associated with the grid,
allowing for a real valued grid index value \fBi\fP which is
in the range 0 to N (0 being the 'left' edge, and N the 'right' edge).
0.5 means the center of the first grid cell etc. 
Index values outside the normal 0..N range return a legal value for
a linear grid only, and cause a fatal error for an array lookup
(\fIor perhaps we will extrapolate using the two edge points\fP).
.SH MOMENT STRUCTURE
A simple data structure (referred to as \fIGrid\fP in the above
SYNOPSIS) is used to communicate between different routines:
.nf
.ta +0.3i +1.5i

typedef struct { 
	int mode;
	int n;
	bool up;
	real *g;
	real gmin, gmax;
	rproc f;
} Grid;

.fi
from the standard include file \fIgrid.h\fP.
.SH BUGS
Array and Procedure gridding don't work.
.SH SEE ALSO
moment(3NEMO), floor(3M)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
~/src/kernel/misc	grid.c
.fi
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
30-oct-93	Created   	PJT
.fi
