.TH HISTORY 3NEMO "7 May 1992"
.SH NAME
get_history, put_history, app_history , ask_history, reset_history, ask_headline, set_headline \- data history utilities 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <history.h>
.PP
.B get_history(instr)
.B put_history(outstr)
.B app_history (s)
.B string *ask_history()
.B reset_history()
.PP
.B void set_headline(s)
.B string ask_headline()
.PP
.B stream instr, outstr;
.B string s;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIhistory\fP is a general mechanism to keep track of data history,
and also store random user-supplied comments to data in
\fIfilestruct(5NEMO)\fP format. One history database at a time
can be managed, history from a file can be added to this, and
it can be written out to a file. Whenever a NEMO command is run,
the history is initialized with the actual command line supplied. 
History from datafiles can be appended to this.
.PP
\fIget_history()\fP appends history from a file
\fBinstr\fP (assumed to be in \fIfilestruct(5NEMO)\fP format) to 
the internal history buffer. This is usually
one of the first things a program should do before other input is
attempted, as the data history is normally prepended to the data. 
.PP
A program can add (append) arbitrary history by calling
\fIapp_history()\fP, where \fBs\fP points to the string to be added.
.PP
\fIput_history()\fP writes the current history to an output file 
\fBoutstr\fP.
If any headline had been set, it will also be written.
.PP
\fIask_history()\fP returns a pointer to a NULL terminated array of
strings that contain the full history status.
.PP
\fIset_headline()\fP is an old way to add user supplied to the history
database. Only one string can be hold here. It is added to the data history
when \fIput_history\fP is called.
.PP
\fIask_headline()\fP returns the headline string, which would be output
.SH FILESTRUCT FORMAT
History items are character strings with tagname \fBHistory\fP, 
headline items are character strings with tagname \fBHeadline\fP.
They are both treated equal: if a headline is present, it is also
written via \fIput_history\fP.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.0i
~/src/kernel/io   	history.[ch]
~/inc                	history.h
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
getparam(3NEMO), tsf(1NEMO), rsf(3NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
9-mar-88	V1.0 created		Peter Teuben
1-jun-88	V1.1 adapted to new filestruct, renamed names	PJT
14-jun-88	V1.3 integrate at IAS, changed _hist to _history	JEB
9-oct-90	V1.8b upgraded manual page	PJT
7-may-92	V1.9 documented name change add_ to app_	PJT
.fi
