.TH AXIS 3NEMO "17 September 2005"
.SH NAME
pl_fread, pl_lread, pl_exec \- ASCII interpreter of YAPP commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <layout.h>

plcommand *pl_fread(string filename)
int pl_lread(string line, plcommand *p)
void pl_exec(plcommand *p)
void pl_readlines(void);
\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIlayout(3NEMO)\fP routines proved the programmer with an ASCII
interpreter and executionar of all basic
\fIyapp(3NEMO)\fP routines (see \fIlayout(5NEMO)\fP for a listing).
They are mostly used to add a standard ``background'' to a dynamic
picture, yet which needs to be programmable by the outside user.
.PP
With the routine
\fIpl_fread\fP a \fIlayout(5NEMO)\fP (regular text) 
file is read, it's YAPP commands are interpreted
and placed in a linked list of \fBplcommand\fP's, returned as a pointer
to that structure. Commands that are not understood are skipped and
not saved.
.PP
The routine \fIpl_lread\fP reads a single line, parses it in YAPP
commands, and stores the encoded command in the \fBplcommand\fP
structure pointed to by \fBp\fP. 
Of course \fIpl_fread\fP calls \fIpl_lread\fP to do its work.
\fIpl_lread\fP returns the number of arguments (including the
YAPP command); 0 means no legal command (or a blank line) 
was encountered and the structures contents have no meaning.
.PP
The routine \fIpl_exec\fP executes a previously read
LAYOUT file, by passing it a pointer to the linked list of
\fBplcommand\fP. The linked list is traversed until it ends
or the \fIEnd\fP command is encountered.
.PP
The routine \fIpl_readlines\fP keeps reading commands from
stdin (via the READLINE library if present) and executing them,
in effect giving a simple mongo/sm/wip type interface.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following code reads a layout file entered through a program
keyword \fBlayout=\fP, parses it and executes it. Because of the
nested programming style, the linked list of \fBplcommand\fP is lost.
.nf

	pl_exec(pl_fread(getparam("layout")));

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
tabplot(1NEMO), yapp(3NEMO), layout(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4i
20-oct-92 	written          	PJT
17-sep-05	added pl_readlines	PJT
.fi
