.TH LOADOBJ 3NEMO "6 November 1991"
.SH NAME
loadobj, findfn, mysymbols \- dynamic object file loader
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdinc.h>
.B #include <loadobj.h>
.PP
.B void loadobj(string pathname)
.B proc findfn(string fname)
.B void mysymbols(string progname)
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines provide a uniform low-level I/O interface to loading
object modules. 
Higher level I/O interfaces are present for a few
standard operations (see e.g. \fIpotential(3NEMO)\fP and 
\fIbodytrans(3NEMO))\fP.
.PP
These routines are intended for applications where a set of mathematical
expressions is specified at runtime as function strings, which are then
evaluated for a large number of variable values. This is done by compiling the
set of function strings into byte code sequences, which can be interpreted very
efficiently for the various variable values. 
.PP
The routine \fImysymbols\fP is generally called once and in the beginning
of the program. It loads all symbols from the program pointed to
by the argument \fIprogname\fP, which is normally the current 
program. These symbols are then stored in an internally defined symbol tree
\fBsymtree\fP. In case \fIprogname\fP is not the complete name, the
\fBPATH\fP environment variable is used (see \fIpathopen(3NEMO)\fP).
.PP
The undefined symbols in each object module that is loaded with 
\fIloadobj\fP are resolved against the already existing symbol tree, 
and new symbols are added to the tree. If a symbol is not found to
be resolved, this is considered an error, and \fIerror(3NEMO)\fP is
called, which aborts the program. In addition the code loaded into
memory is properly relocated using information in the object
code. The argument \fIpathname\fP must be the proper filename, no
search path is provided for.
.PP
After all symbols have been defined, the programmer can obtain
pointers to functions which is specified by name using \fIfindfn\fP.
.SH EXAMPLE
In the following section of code gives an example of use.
.nf
    proc fn;                   /* see defs in <stdinc.h> */

    mysymbols(getparam("argv0"));   /* get local symbols */
    loadobj("test.o");               /* load object code */
    fn = (proc) findfn("_test");       /* find function  */
    if (fn==NULL) error("No test");       /* catch error */
    (*fn)();         /* execute routine test() in test.o */
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
a.out(4), potential(3NEMO), bodytrans(3NEMO)), dlopen(3), dyld(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Eric Roberts (original SunOS version), Peter Teuben (sun4, coff, dl)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +1.5i
~/src/kernel/loadobj         loadobj.c, loadobj*.c
.fi
Much like \fIyapp(3NEMO)\fP, different implementations exist for
different operating systems.
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
23-jul-90       created         PJT
6-nov-91	slight doc improvements; loadobjNEXT.c   	PJT
30-jun-03	documented mach's dyld    	PJT
.fi
