.TH MKPLUMMER 3NEMO "10 June 1988"
.SH NAME
mkplummer \- generates a snapshot according to a truncated Plummer model
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBitemptr  mkplummer(nobj, mfrac, rfrac, seed, snap_time)
int  nobj;
real  mfrac;
real  rfrac;
int  seed;
real  snap_time;
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIMkplummer\fP constructs a Plummer model, with a spatial or mass
cut-off, after which it performs a coordinate transformation to the
center-of-mass coordinate system. The model
is constructed in VIRIAL units (M=G=-4E=1, with E the total energy),
and finite spatial extent which can be regulated by specifying
\fImfrac\fP or \fIrfrac\fP or using their default values.  The
distribution function of a Plummer model is spherically symmetric and
isotropic, and is a polytrope of index n = 5. See: S.J. Aarseth, M.
Henon and R.  Wielen (1974), \fIAstron. and Astrophys.\fB 37\fP, p. 183.
.PP
\fIMkplummer\fP returns a pointer to a new item in the form of a
snapshot which contains the Plummer model. The number of particles is
given by \fInobj\fP.  The mass fraction \fImfrac\fP of the (infinitely
extended) Plummer model indicates at which point the model is cut off:
no particles are sprinkled in beyond the radius at which the
cumulative mass equals \fImfrac\fP.  Alternatively, \fIrfrac\fP can be
used as a direct choice of the cut-off radius. If \fImfrac = rfrac\fP
= 1.0 then particles will be sprinkled in all over space. If
\fImfrac\fP < 1.0 or \fIrfrac\fP < 1.0 then each particle is
constrained to lie within both the radial and (cumulative) mass bound.
For example, if \fIrfrac\fP( \fImfrac\fP ) > \fIrfrac\fP then
\fIrfrac\fP is the limiting factor, but if \fIrfrac\fP( \fImfrac\fP )
< \fIrfrac\fP then \fImfrac\fP limits the extent of the Plummer
realization.  Note: specifying either value may have no effect if the
default value of the other parameter is still the limiting factor;
Beware!  The \fIseed=\fP for the random number generator can have any
positive value. A value \fIseed = 0\fP will be converted into a unique
new value using UNIX's clock time, in seconds since
once-upon-a-time-in-the-seventies.  The time at which the snapshot
applies is indicated by  \fIsnap_time\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
mkplummer(1NEMO), mkuplummer(1NEMO), mkuplummer(3NEMO).
.SH BUGS
.SH AUTHOR
Piet Hut
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
kirin:/usr/piet/clib/mkplummer.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
23-Apr-87	Version 1.0: created         	PIET
10-Jun-88	Version 1.1: created         	PIET
