.TH MOMENT 3NEMO "23 June 2016"
.SH NAME
ini_moment, accum_moment, decr_moment, 
reset_moment, show_moment, n_moment, sum_moment,
mean_moment, sigma_moment, skewness_moment, kurtosis_moment, mad_moment, mard_moment, robust_moment,
min_moment, max_moment \- various (moving) moment and minmax routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B
#include <moment.h>
.PP
.B void ini_moment(m, mom, ndat)
.B void accum_moment(m, x, w)
.B void decr_moment(m, x, w)
.B void reset_moment(m)
.PP
.B real show_moment(m, mom)
.B int n_moment(m)
.B real sum_moment(m)
.B real mean_moment(m)
.B real median_moment(m)
.B real sigma_moment(m)
.B real skewness_moment(m)
.B real kurtosis_moment(m)
.B real h3_moment(m)
.B real h4_moment(m)
.B real mad_moment(m)
.B real mard_moment(m)
.PP
.B real min_moment(m);
.B real max_moment(m);
.PP
.B void compute_robust_moment(m);
.B int n_robust_moment(m);
.B real mean_robust_moment(m);
.B real median_robust_moment(m);
.B real sigma_robust_moment(m);
.PP
.B Moment *m;
.B int mom, ndat;
.B real x, w;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImoment\fP is a set of functions to compute the moments of 
a set of real values, but also keep track of the datamin
and datamax. The routines are written in C but in 
an object-oriented fashion as to try and keep the use from the internal
data-structures. The \fBMoment\fP can (and should) be treated as an
opaque datastructure. All information should be obtained through the
interface routines described below.
.PP
If only a datamin/max is needed, setting \fBmom<0\fP can be used to prevent
the more expensive moment calculations. 
.PP
Moving or running averages (or moments) can be done by supplying \fBndat>0\fP
to ini_moment. It will keep a memory of the last \fBndat\fP data values
and the moments now become running moments.
.PP
Note that the \fImedian_moment\fP can only be used in \fBx\fP (the weights are
ignored) and moving moment where \fBndat>0\fP.
.PP
\fBmean_moment\fP returns the mean value, where \fBsigma_moment\fP returns
the square root of the variance
.PP
\fBrobust_moment's\fP can also be computed. These are based on an algorithm to
remove the outliers. It first computes the distance between the 1st and 3rd quartile,
then removes all points further than 1.5 times that distance from the 1st and 
3rd quartile. After calling \fBcompute_robust_moment\fP, the mean, median and
sigma can be retrieved as those computations are done in a temporary Moment
structure. Caveat: for large datasets and/or moving moments, 
robust_moment's can become expensive because of the need for sorting to
get the quartiles.
.PP
\fBmad_moment\fP computes the Median Absolute Deviation (MAD), arguably a better
measure for the Standard Deviation. As with the robust moments, it needs to
keep a copy of the data available. MAD is formally RMS/1.4826.  Related is
\fBmard_moment\fP, the Mean Absolute Relative Difference (MARD).
.SH MOMENTS
A note on the h3 and h4 moments, somewhat peculiar to astronomy. See
S2.4 in van der Marel & Franx (1993) 
.SH EXAMPLES
The following code computes a weighted mean and dispersion of a set of points:
.nf

    real x[100], w[100];
    int  i,n=100;
    Moment m;
    ...
    ini_moment(&m,2,0);      /* up to 2nd order moment, and using no circular buffer */
    for (i=0; i<n; i)
	accum_moment(&m,x[i],w[i]);
    printf("Mean: %g   Dispersion: %g\\n",
	mean_moment(&m), sigma_moment(&m));
    compute_robust_moment(&m);
    printf("Robust Mean: %g   Dispersion: %g\\n",
	mean_robust_moment(&m), sigma_robust_moment(&m));

.fi
.SH MOMENT STRUCTURE
A simple data structure (referred to as \fImoment\fP in the above
SYNOPSIS) is used to communicate between different routines:
.nf
.ta +0.3i +1.5i

typedef struct { 
	int mom;
	int n;
	real *sum;
	real datamin, datamax;

	int ndat;
	int idat;
	real *dat;
	real *sum;
} Moment;

.fi
from the standard include file \fImoment.h\fP.
.SH BUGS
When \fIdecr_moment\fP is used, the data min/max is not correct. 
Only with \fBndat>0\fP for moving moments can it be recomputed
correctly.
.SH SEE ALSO
grid(3NEMO)
.nf
http://apophenia.info
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +1.5i
~/src/kernel/misc	moment.c
.fi
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
30-oct-93	Created   	PJT
8-nov-93	fixed init bug 	PJT
13-jun-95	added decr_moment	PJT
2-feb-05	added moving moments	PJT
2-mar-11	added h3,h4	PJT
24-apr-13	documented robust statistics	PJT
16-jan-14	added MAD	PJT
11-jun-14	clarified MAD and MARD (the old MAD was really MARD)	PJT
.fi
