.TH ORBIT 3NEMO "24 May 1992" 
.SH NAME
read_orbit, write_orbit, allocate_orbit, list_orbit \- basic orbit i/o routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdinc.h>
.B #include <potential.h>
.B #include <orbit.h>
.PP
.B allocate_orbit(optr,ndim,nsteps)
.B orbitptr *optr;
.B int ndim;
.B int nsteps;
.PP
.B write_orbit(outstr,optr)
.B stream outstr;
.B orbitptr optr;
.PP
.B read_orbit(instr,optr)
.B stream instr;
.B orbitptr *optr;
.PP
.B list_orbit(optr,tstart,tend,n)
.B orbitptr optr;
.B double tstart;
.B double tend;
.B int n;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIorbit(3NEMO)\fP provide a few utility functions which handle the i/o of
\fIorbit(5NEMO)\fP datafile. They subsequently call lower level filestructure 
routines, as described in \fIfilestruct(3NEMO)\fP.
.PP
\fIwrite_orbit\fP writes an orbit to an output stream, using standard
binary filestructure.
.PP
\fIread_orbit\fP reads an orbit from an input stream into a pointer
to an orbit. If that pointer is NULL, i.e. has not been initialized,
this routine will take care of the allocation too.
.PP
\fIallocate_orbit\fP allocates an orbit. Note that \fIoptr\fP is
a pointer to an orbit, on entry normally initialized to NULL
to signal that a new orbit must be allocated. If  \fIoptr\fP was already
assigned a value (previous allocation), \fIallocate_orbit\fP checks if
this one contains enough space. If not, new space is claimed and old
space may be freed. Normally application programs do not need
to call this routine, since \fIread_orbit\fP takes care of the allocation.
.PP
\fIlist_orbit\fP lists the coordinates of an orbit between two given
times.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIorbit(5NEMO)\fP
.SH BUGS
No proper dynamic allocation of orbits yet; space has to be allocated
before it's used in the orbit calculation.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/pjt/orbit  	authors original sources
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
13-Jul-87	V1.0: Original created	PJT
28-jul-87	V2.0: new orbit(5) structure	PJT
24-may-92	V3.0: added potential to orbit	PJT
.fi
