.TH POTENTIAL 3NEMO "13 September 2001"
.SH NAME
get_potential \- obtain potential descriptor and pattern speed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ta +3i
.B #include <stdinc.h>
.PP
.B proc get_potential (potname, potpars, potfile)
.B potproc_double get_potential_double (potname, potpars, potfile)
.B potproc_float  get_potential_float (potname, potpars, potfile)
.B string potname;    	/* generic name of potential */
.B string potpars;    	/* parameters, separated by comma's */
.B string potfile;     	/* optional (file) name or string */
.PP
.B proc get_inipotential ()
.B real get_pattern()
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpotential(3NEMO)\fP provides a uniform interface to handle
the input of the \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP 'datafile' format. 
It returns a pointer to the function wich computes potentials,
forces etc.
.PP
\fIget_potential\fP reads a formulation file of a potential
(see \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP).
\fIpotname\fP is the generic name of the filename, which \fBmust\fP
contain at least two entry points \fBinipotential\fP and 
\fBpotential\fP with a predefined parameter sequence. Modern compilers
with stricter prototyping should use the _double or _float versions
of the same function.


A default search
path is provided by an environment variable \fBPOTPATH\fP, normally
set by the NEMO environment startup script \fBNEMORC\fP.
Potential datafiles can be stored in c-source
form (\fB.c\fP) or (e.g. in case you only them available
in another language) object form (\fB.o\fP). In case only
the source is available, it is compiled to an object file with a
simple system call to the \fIcc(1)\fP compiler.
.PP
Once a potential has been loaded, two additional routines allow
access to intrinsic properties of that potential:
.PP
\fIget_pattern\fP returns the pattern speed of the potential, which
is conventionally the first parameter of the \fIpotpars\fP list.
Potentials which compute the pattern speed from another parameter
(e.g. from the lagrangian radius) should return the pattern speed
in the first array element of \fIini_potential\fP. This routine
is heavily used by routines which need the pattern speed.
.PP
\fIget_inipotential\fP returns a pointer to the function which
initializes the potential. In this way one could re-initialize
and re-use the potential. 
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.B potproc mypot, get_potential();
.B double pot,time;
.B vector pos, acc;
.B int ndim=NDIM;
.B ...
.B mypot = get_potential("harmonic","0.0,1.0,0.5",NULL);
.B (*mypot)(&ndim,pos,acc,&pot,&time);
.B ...
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
potlist(1NEMO),potential(5NEMO),loadobj(3NEMO),acceleration(3NEMO)
.SH BUGS
Uses a dynamic object loader. See loadobj(3NEMO) for
implementations, but see below for a standalone loader.
.PP
Fortran C interface only works on certain implementation where
a fortran 
character string gets its length passed by value as the last argument.
.SH EXAMPLES
The non-loadobj version of the potential loader is called 
\fIpotential0.c\fP and it can compile programs as follows:
.nf
    make orbint L="$NEMOLIB/potential0.o -lnemo $NEMOOBJ/potential/plummer.o"
.fi
and make sure \fIpotential0.o\fP is loaded before the nemo library.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/orbit/potential  	potential.c potential0.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
13-Jul-87	V1.0: Original created	PJT
8-Apr-88	V2.0: added 'name' parameter for hackforce	PJT
13-mar-89	V2.1: 'name_len' in case Fortran was used	PJT
9-feb-89	V3.0: added time parameter to potential()-repair doc	PJT
25-oct-90	V3.2: minor upgrades	PJT
10-mar-93	-- also added potential0.c when loadobj doesn't work	PJT
11-oct-93	V5.0: added get_pattern   	PJT
13-sep-01	V5.4: added _float/_double versions w/ prototyping	PJT
.fi
