.TH TRANSKEPLER 3NEMO "10 June 1988"
.SH NAME
transkepler \- transforms a Kepler orbit to a different representation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <scat.h>\fP
\fBvoid transkepler(total_mass, orbit, oldtype, newtype)
real  total_mass;
realptr  orbit;
int  oldtype;
int  newtype;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fITranskepler\fP takes a pointer \fIorbit\fP to an array with six
real numbers. These numbers are interpreted as the parameters
describing a Kepler orbit according to the representation given by
\fIoldtype\fP.  These numbers are then transformed so that they
describe the same Kepler orbit in terms of the representation given by
\fInewtype\fP.  The resulting vector of the six transformed parameters
replaces the original contents of the vector \fIorbit[]\fP.
\fITotal_mass\fP is the sum of the masses of the two bodies, the
relative motion of which defines the Kepler orbit under consideration.
The gravitational constant \fIG\fP is taken to be unity.
.PP
Allowed types of orbit currently fall in three categories: i) those in
which the first three numbers specifying the orbit describe the
relative position and the second three numbers the relative velocity;
ii) classical orbital elements, in which the distinction between
configuration and velocity space can no longer be made; iii)
coordinates which describe the setup of a scattering experiment, with
a finite initial distance but a description in terms of the asymptotic
parameters (\fIi.e.\fP for infinitely early or late time). The
following types are implemented (make sure to include the file
<scat.h> to access the macro implementation of these names):
.PP
i) CARTESIAN, SPHERICAL,
.PP
ii) TRUEANOMALY, ECCANOMALY, MEANANOMALY, PERIPASSAGE,
.PP
iii) SCATTERING.
.PP
The meaning of the six parameters  orbit[0]  through  orbit[5]  is as
follows.
.PP
For CARTESIAN coordinates, {orbit[0]...orbit[5]} stands for
{z,x,y,vz,vx,vy}; \fIi.e.\fP the positions and velocities, but with
the convention that the order of the axes is: z-axis first, then
x-axis, then y-axis.
.PP
For SPHERICAL coordinates, {orbit[0]...orbit[5]} stands for
{rho, theta, phi, vr, vtheta, vphi}, where rho, theta and phi are the
usual spherical coordinates, and vr, vtheta and vphi are the Cartesian
velocities along unit vectors in the radial, theta and phi directions.
.PP
For TRUEANOMALY coordinates, {orbit[0]...orbit[5]} stands for
{semimajor axis, eccentricity, inclination, longitude of the ascending
node, argument of pericenter, true anomaly}.
.PP
For ECCANOMALY coordinates, {orbit[0]...orbit[5]} stands for
{semimajor axis, eccentricity, inclination, longitude of the ascending
node, argument of pericenter, eccentric anomaly}.
.PP
For MEANANOMALY coordinates, {orbit[0]...orbit[5]} stands for
{semimajor axis, eccentricity, inclination, longitude of the ascending
node, argument of pericenter, mean anomaly}.
.PP
For PERIPASSAGE coordinates, {orbit[0]...orbit[5]} stands for
{semimajor axis, eccentricity, inclination, longitude of the ascending
node, argument of pericenter, time of pericenter passage (with the
current time taken to be zero)}.
.PP
For SCATTERING coordinates, {orbit[0]...orbit[5]} stands for
{impact parameter, impact angle, distance, velocity at infinity,
theta, phi}. The meaning of these parameters is as follows.
.PP
For TSCATTERING coordinates, {orbit[0]...orbit[5]} stands for
{impact parameter, impact angle, encounter time, velocity at infinity,
theta, phi}. The meaning of these parameters is as follows.
.PP
The \fIimpact parameter\fP is the offset at infinity from
a head-on collision, \fIi.e.\fP the closest distance to the origin
if the incoming particle would move in a straight line,
starting from an infinite separation, instead of following
a hyperbolic orbit; in other words, the impact parameter is
the closest distance to the origin of the asymptote to the
hyperbolic orbit.
.PP
For an incoming particle, the \fIimpact angle\fP is defined as the
angle from the fiducial vector to the impact vector, in
counter-clockwise direction as seen from the origin.  Here, the
fiducial vector is a unit vector in the plane spanned by the z-axis
and the velocity vector at infinity, perpendicular to the latter and
with a positive z-component, i.e. pointing upwards; the impact vector
is a vector perpendicular to the velocity at infinity, with a length
equal to the impact parameter, pointing in the direction of the offset
with respect to a head-on collision.  This can be clarified through a
constructive definition for the impact vector: introduce an extra
incoming particle with the same asymptotic velocity (velocity at
infinity) but on a head-on collision orbit. The impact vector is the
vector from the position of this particle to the position of the real
incoming particle positioned at such a point on its orbit that this
vector is perpendicular to their common velocity vector, and very far
away from the origin. NOTE: in the case of an outgoing orbit, the
impact vector is similarly defined as the offset with respect to a
collision orbit at very late times after the scattering event. Also in
this case the fiducial vector points upwards, and the impact angle is
counted counter-clockwise as seen from the origin.
.PP
The \fIdistance\fP is the relative distance between the two bodies. Note
that for any finite distance, the relative velocity between the two
particles is larger than the asymptotic value, as measured at
infinity.
.PP
The \fIencounter time\fP is the time of closest encounter (pericenter
passage) when the current time is taken to be zero. 
.PP
For ingoing orbits, the \fIvelocity at infinity\fP is the absolute
value of the relative velocity in the limit that the two particles are
infinitely far removed and therefore approach the asymptote of their
relative kepler orbit.  NOTE: a trick is used to discriminate between
ingoing and outgoing orbits: outgoing orbits are indicated by adding a
minus sign to the \fIvelocity at infinity\fP is while ingoing orbits
have the usual plus sign (this is the case both for the SCATTERING as
well as for the TSCATTERING representation; the latter doesn't need
this trick, but is was kept there as well to make the representations
more uniform).  BEWARE !! This is a uncivilized hack, but it works.
.PP
\fITheta\fP and \fIphi\fP are the usual spherical angles as used in
spherical coordinates, and are used here to point in the
direction of the ingoing or outgoing particle 
(as the case may be) as seen from the origin at asymptotically
early or late times.
Thus for an incoming orbit, the angles point in the direction
exactly opposite to the velocity at time t --> -infinity,
while for an outgoing orbit, the angles point in the same
direction as the velocity at time t --> +infinity.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE
A transformation from a Cartesian representation to orbital elements
which include eccentric anomaly:
.PP
real  tot_mass, orb_elements[6];
.PP
transkepler(tot_mass, orb_elements, CARTESIAN, ECCANOMALY);
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
kep2kep(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Piet Hut
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
kirin:/usr/piet/clib/kep2kep.c
kirin:/usr/piet/clib/scat.h
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
13-Jan-88	Version 1.0: created         	PIET
10-Jun-88	Version 1.1: created         	PIET
