.TH UNFIO 3NEMO "8 May 2008"
.SH NAME
unfscan, unfread, unfswap, unfsize \- unformatted FORTRAN I/O data access from C
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdinc.h>
.B #include <unfio.h>
.PP
\fBint unfscan(stream instr)\fP
\fBint unfread(stream instr, char *buf, int bufsize)\fP
\fBint unfswap(bool do_swap)\fP
\fBint unfsize(int size)\fP
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIunfio\fP are a set of routines that allow you to (sequentially)
access 
binary files that have been created with most FORTRAN compilers 
in unformatted I/O access. The datafile should have been created with an
\fIform='unformatted'\fP OPEN statement. \fIunfscan\fP can be used
to scan unformatted records, returning the size (in bytes) of the
data-section of each record. End of file and various others 
errors are returned as 0 and some negative number resp. 
\fIunfread\fP can be used in the same way, except you give it a buffer
in which the data can be stored. In good old fortran tradition you
must know the largest buffer size this routine can expect to see.
.PP
The \fIunfsize\fP routine can be set to change the default UNFIO_HDR_SIZE
header size (as determined during NEMO configure and install). Most older
compilers use 4, whereas gfortran use 8. There is also suppor for 0, which
means pure headerless raw data can be read this way.
.PP
For example, the file created from the following snippet of code
.PP
.nf
        INTEGER unit,n
        REAL x,y(3),z(n)

        OPEN(unit,file='test.dat',form='unformatted')
        WRITE(unit) n
        WRITE(unit) x,y,z
        CLOSE(unit)

.fi
can be read with the following snippet of C code:
.nf
        char buf[MAXBUF];
        int *ip = (int *) buf;
        float *fp = (float *) buf;
        double *dp = (double *) buf;
        int n;
        float x, y[3], z[MAXN];

        instr = stropen(...,"r");

        count = unfread(instr,buf,MAXBUF);
        if (count < 1) error("first block");
        n = ip[0];

        count = unfread(instr,buf,MAXBUF);
        if (count < 1) error("second block");
        x = fp[0];
        y[0] = fp[1]; y[1] = fp[2]; y[2] = fp[3];
        for (i=0; i<n; i++)
            z[i] = fp[4+i];

        strclose(instr);
.fi
.SH LIMITATIONS
Currently only tested on a limited number of machines (SunOS, HP/UX),
or any machine where 
\fIunformatted\fP binary output surrounds the data with
4 bytes designating the size of the data written, i.e. what 
a single WRITE statement block writes to disk can be represented
as:
.nf
    struct block {
        int size;
        char buf[size];
        int size;
    } block
.fi
.PP
Access is sequential. If the user keeps a record of the file pointer,
and knows the low level filestructure is that of \fIblock\fP described
above, a call to \fIfseek(3)\fP can in principle be used to re-read
previous blocks.
.SH BUGS
Alignment restrictions on some architectures (e.g. sparc) may 
make reading certain datafiles hard. This feature has not been
implemented. It is up to the user to define their data-alignment
structures/unions, or perform the necessary data copy before
casting is attempted.
.SH SEE ALSO
filestruct(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +1.5i
~/src/fortran/  	unfio.c
.fi
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
xx-may-94	V1.0 Created for prun       	PJT
8-aug-95	V1.1 added support for swap for NBODY5 (u3tos)	PJT
1-mar-06	V1.2 added unfsize for gfortran 	PJT
4-mar-06	V1.3 use a default UNFIO_HDR_SIZE for hdr_size	PJT
8-may-08	V1.4 support raw header=0 data	PJT
.fi

