.TH UNS "05 Dec 2011"
.SH NAME
\fBUNSIOF -- Unified Nbody Snapshot\fP Library (fortran version).

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIUNSIOF\fP is a high level C++ library which allows
 Input operations in a generic way on Nbody snapshot files,
from a FORTRAN program. Currently, NEMO, Gadget 1 and 2 little and
bigendian, and list of separated snapshots in a text file are supported.
The use of this set of functions is very simple and doesn't require any
knowledge of the internal file structure of the snapshot.
 The library can manage multiple reading of different snapshots in the
same program. Every snapshots is identified by a unique identifier
provided by the library.
.PP
 The process to read data is done in 3 steps:

 1) Initialisation of the library
 2) Data loading
 3) Data extracting

.SH INITIALISATION
 
.TP 3
\fBinteger uns_init(filename, selected_component, selected_time)\fP
 It returns an integer as a unique identifier.  A returned value less
than 0 means that the simulation does not exist or a file format
unknown.

\fIfilename\fP: (character * (*))
 Is the input simulation filename. It can be an absolute
filename path or just a simulation name (eg "gas001"). In the later
case, all the parameters of the simulation, if it exists, will be
automatically collected from the simulation database filename stored
in the usual place (/pil/programs/DB/simulation.dbl).

\fIselected_component\fP: (character * (*))
 select components or range of particles that you want to load. The
following data can be
requested:\fBdisk,gas,halo,bulge,stars,bndry,all\fP. A range
with the value \fB"0:299999"\fP select the particles between 0 and
299999. For NEMO simulation, range and components of the selected
simulation will be taken from the file \fI/pil/programs/DB/simulation.dbl\fP.
 You can request several data separated with a ","  like  this:
"disk,gas". The order of your selection will be respected when you
will get the data.

\fIselected_time\fP: (character * (*))
 select a range of time from where you want to select the
particles. You can request several range of times separated with a
",".  
 Example: "700:750,800:900" will only proceed on particles in the time
range [700:750] and [800:900].

\fBinteger uns_sim_type(ident)\fP
 This function return an integer matching to the type of the snaphot identified by
the integer \fBident\fP.
 It returns \fB"0"\fP for \fBnemo\fP snapshot, \fB"1"\fP for \fBgadget\fP snapshot.

.SH DATA LOADING

.TP 3
\fBinteger uns_load(ident)\fP
 This function load the next time step of the snaphot identified by
the integer \fBident\fP.
 It returns \fB"1"\fP if the snapshot has been successfully loaded or \fB"0"\fP at
the end of the snapshot.

.TP 3
\fBinteger uns_load_opt(ident,selected_values)\fP
 This is an optimized version of the uns_load() function. 
 This function load the next time step of the snaphot identified by
the integer \fBident\fP.
 It returns \fB"1"\fP if the snapshot has been successfully loaded or \fB"0"\fP at
the end of the snapshot.

\fIselected_values\fP: (character * (*))
 The extra variable \fBselected_values\fP allows to restrict the loading of
 selected values only. It can speedup the file
 loading and reduce the memory footprint. Each value is specified by a
 character. Here is all the possibilities :
  'm'  mass
  'x'  position
  'v'  velolcity
  'p'  potential
  'a'  acceleration
  'e'  softening
  'k'  keys array (from nemo)
  'X'  aux array  (from nemo)
  'R'  density
  'I'  particles's Id
  'U'  Internal energy
  'M'  metallicity
  'A'  stars's age
  'H'  hsml
  'T'  temperature

 example:  \fB"mxR"\fP will load mass, position and density only.
 
.SH DATA EXTRACTING (uns_get_value/ uns_get_array)
In the following text, we assume that character variable \fIcomponent\fP can take the following values:
 "all","gas","disk","halo","stars","bulge","bndry"

Each functions return 1 if success or 0 if it fails.

 There is a set of \fBuns_get_value\fP functions to get data value (float or integer) from the
snapshot. Each functions take as first parameter an integer \fBident\fP, returned by the function \fIuns_init(...)\fP.

\fBfunction integer uns_get_value_i(ident,tag,data)\fP  Put in the integer variable \fBdata\fP, the requested \fItag\fP value. Tag is a string  variable.

tag="nsel" => set data with number of particles selected

\fBfunction integer uns_get_value_f(ident,tag,data)\fP Put in the real*4 variable \fBdata\fP, the requested  \fItag\fP value. Tag is a string  variable.

tag="time"      => set data with snapshot time 
.nf
tag="redshift"  => set data with snapshot redshift

\fBfunction integer uns_get_array_i(ident,component,tag,data,n)\fP
Put in the integer array variable \fBdata(n)\fP, the requested  combination of \fItag\fP value and \fIcomponent\fP. Tag and component are string  variables.

tag="id"        => set data array with component ids
tag="nbody"     => set n value with component nbody 

\fBfunction integer uns_get_array_f(ident,component,tag,data,n)\fP
 Put in the real*4 array variable \fBdata(n)\fP, the requested combination of \fItag\fP value and \fIcomponent\fP. Tag and component are string  variables.

tag="pos"        => set data array with component position
.nf
tag="vel"        => set data array with component velocity
.nf
tag="mass"       => set data array with component mass
.nf
tag="acc"        => set data array with component acceleration
.nf
tag="pot"        => set data array with component potential
.nf
tag="rho "       => set data array with component density
.nf
tag="u"          => set data array with component internal energy
.nf
tag="hsml"       => set data array with component hydro smooth length
.nf
tag="age"        => set data array with component age
.nf
tag="metal"      => set data array with component metalicity
.nf
tag="temp"       => set data array with component temperature


.SH DATA EXTRACTING (uns_get_XXXX)
 There is a set of \fBuns_get_XXXX\fP functions to get data from the
snapshot. Each functions take as the first parameter an integer
\fBident\fP returned by the function \fIuns_init(...)\fP.

\fBsubroutine uns_get_nbody(ident,nbody)\fP
 Put in the integer variable \fBnbody\fP the #bodies resquested
according to the \fIselected_component\fP variable (Cf uns_init(...) function).

\fBsubroutine uns_get_time(ident,time)\fP
 Put in the floating variable \fBtime\fP the current time of the simulation.

\fBsubroutine uns_get_pos(ident,pos,size_array)\fP
 Put in the two dimensional floating array \fBpos(3,size_array)\fP,
all the positions requested.

\fBsubroutine uns_get_vel(ident,vel,size_array)\fP
 Put in the two dimensional floating array \fBvel(3,size_array)\fP,
all the velocities requested.

\fBsubroutine uns_get_mass(ident,mass,size_array)\fP
 Put in the one dimensional floating array \fBmass(size_array)\fP,
all the masses requested.

\fBfunction integer uns_get_age(ident,age,size_array)\fP
 Put in the one dimensional floating array \fBage(size_array)\fP,
all the particles with an age (stars). It returns the number of stars particles or 0.

\fBfunction integer uns_get_metal(ident,metal,size_array)\fP
 Put in the one dimensional floating array \fBmetal(size_array)\fP,
all the particles with metalicity (gas+stars) in the respective order
gas then stars. It returns the number of gas+stars particles or 0.

\fBfunction integer uns_get_metal_gas(ident,metal,size_array)\fP
 Put in the one dimensional floating array \fBmetal(size_array)\fP,
metalicity of the gas particles. It returns the number of gas particles or 0.

\fBfunction integer uns_get_metal_stars(ident,metal,size_array)\fP
 Put in the one dimensional floating array \fBmetal(size_array)\fP,
metalicity of the stars particles. It returns the number of stars particles or 0.

\fBfunction integer uns_get_u(ident,u,size_array)\fP
 Put in the one dimensional floating array \fBu(size_array)\fP,
internal energy of the gas particles. It returns the number of gas particles or 0.

\fBfunction integer uns_get_temp(ident,temp,size_array)\fP
 Put in the one dimensional floating array \fBtemp(size_array)\fP,
temperature of the gas particles. It returns the number of gas particles or 0.

\fBfunction integer uns_get_rho(ident,rho,size_array)\fP
 Put in the one dimensional floating array \fBrho(size_array)\fP,
density of the gas particles. It returns the number of gas particles or 0.

\fBinteger uns_get_range(ident,component,nbody,first,last)\fP
 This function give the particles's range for a selected
component. You give in a string variable
\fBcomponent\fP, the name of the component, and the function return
an integer variable \fBnbody\fP (#bodies), \fBfirst\fP and \fBlast\fP,
the first and the last index of the component in the array. First and
last values are given in fortran array convention (starts from index 1).

 It returns \fB"1"\fP if the component exist, and \fB"0"\fP otherwise.
 Example to get halo's particles range:

 status =  uns_get_range(ident,"halo",n,first,last)

\fBinteger uns_get_eps(ident,component,eps)\fP
 This function give the softening for a selected component. You give
in a string variable \fBcomponent\fP, the name of the component, and 
the function return a float variable \fBeps\fP.

 It returns \fB"1"\fP if the softening exist for the component, and
\fB"0"\fP otherwise.
 This function will only work if the simulation requested belong to
the database file \fI/pil/programs/DB/simulation.dbl\fP.

 Example to get halo's softening:

 status =  uns_get_eps(ident,"halo",eps)

\fBinteger uns_get_cod(ident,component,time,tcod[7])\fP
 This function give the COD for a selected component (or a set of
 components separeted with ","), at the selected time. You give
in a string variable \fBcomponent\fP, the name of the component, and 
the function return a float array \fBtcod[7]\fP filled with respectively
 the time, x,y,z,vx,vy,vz of the COD.

 It returns \fB"1"\fP if the cod  exist for the requested component
 and time. It returns \fB"0"\fP if the cod does not exits for the
 requested time. It returns \fB"-1"\fP if the COD file does not exist.

 This function will only work if the simulation requested belong to
the database file \fI/pil/programs/DB/simulation.dbl\fP.

 Example to get "disk,stars"'s cod at time=0.1:

 status =  uns_get_cod(ident,"disk,stars",0.1,tcod)

.SH EXAMPLE

.nf
      ! -----------------------------------------------------------
      program testlib
      implicit none
      integer iargc, lnblnk, narg, uns_init, uns_load, valid, ident,
     $     nbody

      character arg1 * 80, arg2 * 80, arg3 * 80
      narg = command_argument_count()  

      if (narg.ne.3) then
         write(0,*) "You must give 3 parameters:"
         write(0,*) "filename selected_component selected_time"
         stop
      endif
      call get_command_argument(1,arg1) ! get filename
      call get_command_argument(2,arg2) ! get selected component
      call get_command_argument(3,arg3) ! get selected time

      ! initialyze UNS engine
      ident=uns_init(arg1, arg2, arg3) ! return identifier for the snaphot
                                       ! ident must be positive
      if (ident.gt.0) then
         valid = 1
         do while (valid .gt. 0) ! loop on all the time step
            valid = uns_load(ident) ! load data belonging to ident snapshot
            if (valid .gt. 0) then  ! it goes fine 
               call uns_get_nbody(ident, nbody) ! get #bodies
               call start(ident,nbody)
            endif
         enddo
      endif
      end
      ! -----------------------------------------------------------
      subroutine start(ident,nbody)
      implicit none
! input parameters
      integer ident,nbody
! UNS variable
      integer status
      integer  uns_get_range
      real *4 time, pos(3,nbody), vel(3,nbody), mass(3,nbody)
! various      
      integer io_nemo_f
      character * 90 out
      integer n,first,last

      call uns_get_time(ident,time      )  ! read time
      call uns_get_pos (ident,pos ,nbody)  ! read pos
      call uns_get_vel (ident,vel ,nbody)  ! read vel
      call uns_get_mass(ident,mass,nbody)  ! read mass
      status = uns_get_range(ident,"gas",n,first,last) ! gas's range

      out = "nemo.out"
      write(0,*) "nbody=",nbody," time=",time
      status = io_nemo_f(out,80,nbody,"float,save,3n,n,t,x,v,m",
     $     nbody,time,pos,vel,mass)
      end
      ! -----------------------------------------------------------

.PP
.SH COMPILATION
 A fortran program which use the UNS library must link against NEMO
library (-lnemo) and C++ library (-lstdc++). Here is an example of
Makefile using gfortran compiler.

.nf
# ----------------------------------------
# MAKEFILE to use UNS
# ----------------------------------------
# find libg2c.a library
LIB_G77 := $(shell g77 -print-libgcc-file-name  2> /dev/null)
LIB_G77 := $(shell dirname $(LIB_G77)           2> /dev/null)

# path for NEMO Library, UNS library and G2C
UNS_LIB_PATH :=  $(LOCAL)/lib
LIBS         := -L$(NEMOLIB) -L$(UNS_LIB_PATH) -L$(LIB_G77)

# - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
# compilation with gfortran compiler
# - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
GFORTFLAGS = -Wall -O2 -ggdb -Wl,-rpath,$(UNS_LIB_PATH)

testlibF : testlib.F
	gfortran $(GFORTFLAGS)  -o $@ testlib.F $(LIBS) \\
                  -lnemomaing77 -lunsio -lnemo -lg2c -lstdc++ -lm
# ----------------------------------------
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
nemo(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), gadget2nemo, uns_tonemo, uns_density, uns_2dplot
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Jean-Charles LAMBERT

.SH BUGS and COMMENT
Please, report all bugs and comment to : 
.nf
Jean-Charles.Lambert@oamp.fr
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
11-Dec-08	created                        JCL
09-Jun-11	a lot of improvement           JCL
.fi










