.TH COOKBOOK 8NEMO "8 October 1990"
.SH NAME
cookbook \- a quick list of what to do to run treecode on the 205 (outdated)
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sample steps to run N-body programs on CYBER 205, as starting on SUN's. The 
\fBboldface\fP is what you type on the keyboard. I will assume that you will
do your work in some subdirectory on JVNC
.TP 10
\fB(-)\fP
prepare your input data file, in (binary) snapshot format, on the sun. Call it 
\fBi001.dat\fP. There are various programs available to make these startup
files. See \fIPrograms(1)\fP
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
convert the snapshot to ascii, using STOA:
.nf
sun>\fBstoa i001.dat i001.data\fB
.fi
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
prepare a parameter file with input parameters for the hackcode
to run, call it \fBi001.par\fP. This is a regular ascii file.
See \fItreecode(1)\fP for a description what should be in, although
it may deviate somewhat if you change your I/O in CODE.UPD on the JVNC/205.
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
copy (\fBFTP\fP) both (ascii) files over to JVNC (currently through IASVAX)
.nf
sun>\fBftp iasvax\fP
-...Name: \fBscratch\fP
-...Password: \fB<CR>\fP (give a carriage return)
ftp> \fBput i001.data\fP
ftp> \fBput i001.par\fP
ftp> \fBquit\fP
.fi
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
log in on JVNC (you will never directly talk to the 205);
.nf
sun>\fBtelnet iasvax\fP
-...Username: \fBNETWORK\fP
-...Enter node name..: \fBJVNC\fP
-...Username: \fI<your JVNC Username>\fP
-...Password: \fI<your JVNC Password>\fP
JVNC>
.fi
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
go over to the proper dir and get the input files from IASVAX
.nf
JVNC> \fBCD WORK\fP or \fBSET DEF [.WORK]\fP
JVNC> \fBFTP IASVAX\fP
* \fBUSER SCRATCH\fP
Password:\fB<CR>\fP (give a Carriage Return)
* \fBGET I001.DATA\fP
* \fBGET I001.PAR\fP
* \fBQUIT\fP
.fi
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
put the files on the 205:
.nf
JVNC> \fBPEPPUT I001.DATA TREEBODI \fP
JVNC> \fBPEPPUT I001.PAR TREEPARS \fP
.fi
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
make sure that the exectuable code is present on the cyber by e.g.
running PEPFILES and see if the controllee file (\fBCODEGO\fP) is
on your user area on the 205; otherwise, regenerate it by
.pp
JVNC> \fB@CODECL\fP
.pp
and wait for a CODE.LOG to come back on VAX and check if compilation
was OK.
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
run it (perhaps after modifying the time limit and queue in the RESOURCE statement
in the CODEGO.COM file.
.nf
JVNC> \fB@CODEGO\fP
.fi
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
check status using PEPSTAT or check if a new CODE.LOG file has
arrived in your directory
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
rename the funny 205 output filenames to more appropriate names:
.nf
JVNC> \fBRENAME TREEBODO R001.DATA\fP
JVNC> \fBRENAME TREELOGS R001.LOG \fP
JVNC> \fBRENAME CODE.LOG C001.LOG \fP
.fi
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
copy (\fBFTP\fP) your output files back to IASVAX first
.nf
JVNC> \fBFTP IASVAX\fP
* \fBUSER SCRATCH\fP
Password:\fB<CR>\fP (give a Carriage Return)
* \fBPUT R001.DATA\fP
* \fBPUT R001.LOG\fP
* \fBPUT C001.LOG\fP
* \fBQUIT\fP
.fi
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
go back to your favourite SUN:
.nf
JVNC> \fBlogout\fP
Enter Node...:\fB<CR>\fP (give a carriage return)
sun> \fBls\fP
.TP
get the files from IASVAX
.nf
sun> \fBftp iasvax\fP
-...Name: \fBscratch\fP
-...Password: \fB<CR>\fP (give a carriage return)
ftp> \fBget r001.data\fP
ftp> \fBget r001.log\fP
ftp> \fBget c001.log\fP
ftp> \fBquit\fP
.fi
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
convert the output ascii file to snapshot and delete the (huge) .data file(s).
.nf
sun> \fBatos r001.data r001.dat \fP
sun> \fBrm r001.data i001.data \fP
.TP
\fB(-)\fP
start analysing...... (see \fIPrograms(1)\fP)
.nf
sun> \fBsnapplot r001.dat\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.5i
JVNCC::DISK27:[TEUBEN1P.CODE]CODE*.COM	some (edited) PEP command files
.fi
.SH BUGS
JVNC went out of business in the spring of 1990. Their 5 year contract
with NSF was not extended.... The manual page is kept for historical reasons.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
update(lNEMO), usage205(8NEMO)
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
 6-May-87	document created         	PJT
25-Jun-87	extensive example session	PJT
9-oct-90	OLD but Kept for Historical Reasons	PJT
