.TH FILES 8NEMO "12 June 1994"
.SH NAME
files \- summary of all special files, environment variables, programmers etc.
.SH DESCRIPTION
A number of files and environment variables are essential to certain
operations in NEMO. They may sometimes conflict when a user has set 
up various other software packages. See also Appendix G.2 in the 
\fINEMO Users/Programmers Guide\fP.
.PP
Also listed are the shorthands sometimes used for some of the 
known authors/contributors of NEMO software. They often go by cryptic
three letter abreviations. The table here lists their full names.
.PP
Possible conflicts may occur when NEMO's cc-compiler (cc(1NEMO)) or
make-shell script are used, or other packages happened to use the same
environment variable for similar purposes.
.SH "LIST OF FILES"
.nf
.ta +2.5i
$NEMO/NEMORC          	standard startup file for everybody
$NEMO/NEMORC.gen	template for NEMORC.local
$NEMO/NEMORC.local	local additions of NEMORC go in here (\fIlocal\fP)
$NEMO/nemo.rc       	yet another way to start up NEMO
$NEMO/nemo_start	source this, and you're all set (\fIlocal\fP)
$NEMO/nemo_end     	source this, to remove NEMO from the environment
$NEMO/etc/motd      	message of the day (alias: motd) (\fIlocal\fP)
.fi
.SH "LIST OF ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.nf
.ta +2.5i
NEMO                      	top directory where NEMO resides.
MANPATH                 	manual search path, should include $NEMO/man
YAPPLIB                  	default graphics linking libraries
HELP                        	default help level in initparam(3NEMO)
DEBUG                        	default debug level in initparam(3NEMO)
ERROR                    	default allowed error count in initparam(3NEMO)
YAPP                        	default yapp device in initparam(3NEMO)
BTRPATH                   	directory path for bodytrans(3NEMO) functions
POTPATH                   	directory path for potential(3NEMO) functions
CFLAGS                  	used by on-the-fly compilers
.SH "LIST OF AUTHORS"
.nf
.ta +1i +2i
SJA	Sverre J. Aarseth	Cambridge, GB
JEB	Joshua E. Barnes	Hawaii, USA
KGB	Kor Begeman       	Groningen, NL
SMF	Scott Foster         	College Park, USA
PAF/ADM	Patrick A. Frisch	Germany
RAG	Robert A. Gruendl	College Park, USA
LXH	Lars Hernquist      	Santa Cruz, USA
PXH	Piet Hut           	Princeton, USA
JCM	Chris Mihos         	Michigan, USA
BXS	Bob Sault           	Sidney, AU
PXS	Panayotis Skordos	formerly MIT, USA
NVS	Nick Strobel      	U. of Washtington, USA
PJT	Peter J. Teuben     	College Park, USA
MXW	Martin Weinberg      	Princeton, USA
PXW	Peter Wisnovski      	formerly Princeton, USA
WLS	William L. Sebok        College Park, USA
DCR	Derek C. Richardson	CITA, Toronto, CAN
J.N	Jeffrey Newman      	College Park/Berkeley, USA
PAS	Christian Theis      	Kiel, Germany
MHS	Matthias Steinmetz  	MPI, Garching, Germany
TRQ	Tom Quinn         	U. Washington, Seattle, USA
NSK	Neal Katz        	U. Washington, Seattle, USA
LXA	Luis Aguilar     	Ensenada, Mexico.
MXB	Marc Balcells      	U. Groningen, Netherlands
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
intro(1NEMO), \fIThe NEMO Users/Programmers Guide\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +2.0i ++4.0i
16-Mar-87	created             	PJT
 8-Apr-87	new filestruct by JEB	PJT
30-May-88	rewritten       	PJT
13-Apr-92	long time due     	PJT
15-jun-92	category is now 8	PJT
14-aug-92	updated names      	PJT
.fi
