.TH HISTORY 8NEMO "17 April 2021"

.SH "NAME"
history \- a brief history of NEMO

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fINEMO\fP was initially developed in 1986/87 at the Institute for Advanced
Study (Princeton) by Barnes, Hut, and Teuben. These a few of my personal
notes and reflections on its history.

.PP
Say something about ZENO, StarLab, ASC and AMUSE, as they are geneologically
related to NEMO.

.SH "STARLAB"
Taken from the starlab history description:
.PP
To some extent, Starlab is modeled on NEMO, a stellar dynamics
software environment developed during the 1980s at the Institute for
Advanced Study, in large part by Josh Barnes, with input from Peter
Teuben and Piet Hut. Starlab differs from NEMO mainly in its use of
UNIX pipes, rather than temporary files, its use of tree structures
rather than arrays to represent N-body systems, and its guarantee of
data conservation in piping. The first Starlab version was written by
Piet Hut at Tokyo University in 1989, in the C language. in 1992, Piet
Hut, Jun Makino and Steve McMillan adapted the package to C++, and
developed its the central engine, Kira, for integrating stellar orbits
with individual time steps. Subsequently, Simon Portegies Zwart
contributed his SeBa package for stellar evolution, which is directly
linked with Kira.

.SH "AMUSE"
Geneologically AMUSE could be considered the grand-child of NEMO. 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.ta +1in
ZENO:	http://www.ifa.hawaii.edu/faculty/barnes/software.html
starlab:	http://www.sns.ias.edu/~starlab/   http://www.manybody.org/manybody/starlab.html
ASC:	http://www.artcompsci.org/
AMUSE:	https://amusecode.github.io/
.fi

If you want to read up on N-body calculations, here are some selected reviews:
.nf
.ta +2i

Hockney & Eastwood	Computer Simulation Using Particles, Adam Hilger, New York (1989).

Sellwood	https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1987ARA%26A..25..151S The art of N-body building.
Sellwood	https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1997ASPC..123..215S   Galaxy Dynamics by N-Body Simulation
von Hoerner	https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2001ASPC..228...11V   How it All Started
Dubinki		https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2008NJPh...10l5002D   Visualizing astrophysical N-body systems 
Dehnen & Read	https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2011EPJP..126...55D   N-body simulations of gravitational dynamics
.fi

and comparing N-body models between different codes is discussed in a few papers. some of the data
are also discussed in \fIdata(5NEMO)\fP

.nf
Pythagoras Three Body Problem - https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1967AJ.....72..876S
IAU 25-body problem - Lecar 1968
Santa Barbare Cluster Problem 
Hozumi & Hernquist - https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1995ApJ...440...60H
.fi

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
17-apr-2021	initial notes	PJT
.fi
