.TH IMPORT 8NEMO "2 April 1990"
.SH NAME
import \- import new files as a tar file from remote sites (deprecated)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B import.csh 
.I tar-file root-dir cp-prog mode
.SH DESCRIPTION
This script is now deprecated, we are now using CVS for source code control
.PP
\fBimport\fP is currently installed as a shell script
\fIimport.csh\fP. The first parameter, \fItar-file\fP, is the name of the
tarfile. The second parameter, \fIroot-dir\fP,
is the root directory
name of the package one wants to import to. The directory trees
inside the tar file and the package are assumed to be the same.
The third parameter, \fIcp-prog\fP,
is the name of the program that will be 
used for copying files from the tar image top the directory
where the file is supposed to wind up. Common choices are
\fI "cp -p"\fP (which also preserved time stamps) and
\fP mv\fP. Note that it is important that timestamps are preserved
if your local node also has export running as a Nightly crontab
script.
The fourth parameter, \fImode\fP, the the mode the script is run 
in. A mode of \fB1\fP is manual and interactive, with a small menu
letter the user browse differences and such of files to be imported
[highly recommended]. A mode of \fB0\fP lets you run import 
unattended. Cross your fingers.
.PP
The tarfile is renamed with an appending \fB-\fI, to 
denote that the file has been imported.
.PP
The UNIX operating system does not have standard facilities to
have multiple versions of a file, like VMS does. If the \fIcp-prog\fP
is any of the standard UNIX utilities (mv, cp -p) the old version
will disappear. You would have to get a script that saves backup files.
A possible way is the submit script (miriad/nemo?) which renames 
the last file to something of the form \fI.file.versionnumber\fP.
.PP
Although the original copies of all import/export files live in
$NEMO/src/nemo/adm, the working copies are placed in $NEMO/adm (\fBmake
adm\fP).  Execution of import and export scripts must be from this working
directory, as they are not placed in general accessible bin directories
in a users search path. 
.SH SEE ALSO
export(8NEMO)
.SH FILES
In $NEMO/src/nemo/adm: original copies, in $NEMO/adm: working copies.
.sp 2
.nf
.ta +2.0i
$NEMO/adm	root directory for all local import/export activity
$NEMO/adm/import	imported tar files from other sites
$NEMO/adm/export	exported tar files to other sites
export.csh	export script, often called by Nightly
import.csh	import script, normally called manually
Nightly   	script run by cron
crontab   	example crontab file to run Nightly
Netrc   	file with list of remote sites for export
Last_ntar	time check file, needed by export
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
2-apr-90	manual written	PJT
6-jul-01	documented its deprecation	PJT
.fi
