.TH NEMOPLOT 8NEMO "16 August 2022"

.SH "NAME"
nemoplot \- plot a table with self-describing PLOT command(s)

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fBnemoplot \fI table_file [key=val] ...\fP 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBnemoplot\fP will plot a data table using NEMO commands that
are embedded as comments in the table.
.PP
Since NEMO ascii tables (see \fItable(5NEMO)\fP) can contain
#-style comments, we allow (NEMO) commands to be embedded with
a special '#PLOT' line, making such tables somewhat \fIself-plotting\fP.
.PP
The \fIxmgrace(1)\fP program has a similar approach, combining data and
the commands to produce the plot all in a single file, referred
to as a Grace Project File (*.agr).

.SH "PARAMETERS"
Except for the first parameter, subsquent parameters must be \fIkey=val\fP, and
cannot be abbreviated.
.TP 24
\fItable_file\fP
This needs to be the first parameter, without a keyword, and must be
an existing file (normally an acii table).   No default
.TP
\fBplot=\fP\fInumber\fP
Pick which plot# to run (0 means show all, 1 execute the first, etc.)   [1]
.TP
\fBtmp=\fP\fIscript-file\fP
Name of bash script to run plots, which will be created. [tmp$$]
.TP
\fBclean=0|1\fP
means clean up bash script, 0 means keep it [1]
.TP
\fByapp=\fP
Override any potential \fIyapp(5NEMO)\fP setting from the one used in the script. Unlike in a normal
NEMO command line parser, here we allow keywords to be given multiple times, the last one set will
be the one used. [Default: not used]

.SH "CAVEATS"
Any '#PLOT' commands will likely refer to a table filename, which must be in the current (or correct) directory.
.PP
This is a simple bash script, the CLI does not adhere to the usual \fIgetparam(3NEMO)\fP conventions.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
An example from the \fInemoplot\fP repository:
.nf

	cd $NEMODAT/nemoplot
	nemoplot shift2.tab plot=2
	
.fi
and here an example how to make such a table from scratch
.nf

	nemoinp 1:10 | tabmath - - 'sqrt(%1),%2+rang(0,0.1)' > tab1
	echo "#PLOT tabplot tab1 1 2,3 line=1,1,0,0 color=2,3 point=0,0,2,0.1" >> tab1

	nemoplot tab1

.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
nemo(1NEMO), yapp(1NEMO), tabplot(1NEMO), tabhist(1NEMO), grace(1)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "FILES"
.nf
.ta +3i
$NEMO/src/scripts/nemoedit	(bash) script
$NEMODAT/nemoplot/      	directory with example \fInemoplot\fP files
.fi

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
16-aug-2022	Created		PJT
.fi
