.TH NEWS 1NEMO "6 March 1989"
.SH NAME
news \- shell scripts to interact with nemo's news facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnews [folder]\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnews\fP is a shell script which allows you to peek into NEMO's
private mail folder (usually lives in /usr/spool/mail/nemo, assuming
nemo's username is nemo). An optional foldername \fBfolder\fP will 
allow you to peek into
various folders which live in $NEMOPATH/mail.
.SH "SENDING MAIL TO OTHER SITES"
Use the standard UNIX \fImail(1)\fP to send mail to all other
sites connected with your current one. Check the $NEMOPATH/.forward
file to see which sites are supported. 
.PP
A potential very dangerous situation has been taken care of by the
\fImail(1)\fP utility: two users with a .forward file which forwards
the mail to the other user could in princeple flood the filesystem,
however (at least SUN's \fImail(1)\fP) stops the forwarding when
it sees  that it has to forward the mail to the one who send it!
.SH BUGS
The NEMO manager should never empty its system mailbox, otherwise
the default protection (0600 = RW for user only) will prevent other
users to read news next time around. Reset it with
"\fBchmod 644 /usr/spool/mail/nemo\fP".
.PP
Potential danger with multiple .forward files, see section SENDING MAIL
TO OTHER SITES above.
.SH BUGS - FUTURE
Currently the mail  faclity has been turned off - the repository directory
is now $NEMO/news. Perhaps the mail directory will disappear.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/nemo/news  	sources
~/news              	repository
~/mail          	old repository
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
24-Jun-87	created                                 	PJT
2-Jun-88	renamed to news using standard unix mail	PJT
6-Mar-89	changed again - now scanning ~/news      	PJT	
.fi
