.TH NEMOPARS 8NEMO "17 August 2022"

.SH "NAME"
nemopars \- extract parameters from a bash-style rc file

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fBnemopars \fI par1,par2,... rc1 rc2 ...\fP 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBnemopars\fP will extract the values of \fIpar=val\fP constructs
in a  bash-style rc file. The convention is that in a run directory
NEMO stores these in a \fBnemopars.rc\fP file. For example with the
following rc file
.nf

# ./mkmh97.sh version=11-aug-2022
run=run0 m=1 v0=1 seed=-3
m16=0.815569

.fi
the command
.nf

   nemopars m,v0,m16 run0/nemopars.rc
   
.fi
would result
.nf

   # m v0 m16
   1 1 0.815569

.fi

When many simulations each in their own run directory, a command line
.nf

   nemopars m,v0,m15 run*/nemopars.rc
   
.fi
would be a quick way to assemble a table summarizing these three parameters

.SH "PARAMETERS"
Except for the first parameter, subsquent parameters must be \fIkey=val\fP, and
cannot be abbreviated.
.TP 24
\fItable_file\fP
This needs to be the first parameter, without a keyword, and must be
an existing file (normally an acii table).   No default
.TP
\fBplot=\fP\fInumber\fP
Pick which plot# to run (0 means show all, 1 execute the first, etc.)   [1]
.TP
\fBtmp=\fP\fIscript-file\fP
Name of bash script to run plots, which will be created. [tmp$$]
.TP
\fBclean=0|1\fP
means clean up bash script, 0 means keep it [1]
.TP
\fByapp=\fP
Override any potential \fIyapp(5NEMO)\fP setting from the one used in the script. Unlike in a normal
NEMO command line parser, here we allow keywords to be given multiple times, the last one set will
be the one used. [Default: not used]

.SH "CAVEATS"
This is a simple python script, the CLI does not adhere to the usual \fIgetparam(3NEMO)\fP conventions.
There is also no error checking on the names of the parameters. A mis-spelled variable or missing parameter
in the rc file simply results in fewer columns in the output file.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
nemo(1NEMO), awk(1)

.SH "FILES"
.nf
.ta +3i
$NEMO/src/scripts/nemopars	(python) script
.fi

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
17-aug-2022	Created		PJT
.fi
