.TH TRICKS 8NEMO "3 August 2022"

.SH "NAME"
tricks \- some Unix tricks when using NEMO

.SH "FILES: COMPRESSION AND SUCH"
One can use \fIcat(1)\fP to catenate structured binary files, e.g.
.nf
	\fBcat r001a.dat >>r001.dat\fP
.fi
.PP
To copy structured binary files between machines of different binary
format, use the \fItsf(1NEMO), rsf(1NEMO)\fP programs and, if available,
the \fIcompress(1), uncompress(1)\fP utilities:
.nf
	\fBtsf in=r001.dat maxprec=t allline=t | compress >> r001.data.Z\fP
and on the other machine:
	\fBzcat r001.data.Z | rsf - r001.dat\fP
.fi
On non-Unix supercomputers, often the ASCII
"205" format (see e.g. \fIatos(1NEMO)\fP)
will be used. This may be saved in compressed format also, and can
be processed by NEMO after
.nf
	\fBzcat r001.data.Z | atos - r001.dat\fP
.fi
See also the \fItcppipe(1NEMO)\fP program to read the data over
a pipe from another machine.
.PP
Some N-body programs, which are capable of handling a series of snapshots,
and selecting them using the \fBtimes=\fP keyword, are not able to
handle subsequent snapshots which are larger than the first one. In fact, 
unpredictable things may happen, although usually it results in
a core because of illegal memory access. There are two solutions.
The program can be recompiled, by using a \fB-DREALLOC\fP flag or
\fB#define\fP it in the source code. The second solution is to prepend
the datafile with a large enough 'dummy' file.
.PP
To display a scatter diagram in the form of a contour map, convert
the two columns to a snapshot by calling them 'x' and 'y' coordinates.
Remaining phase space coordinates are unimportant. Set masses to 1, and
use the \fIatos(1NEMO)\fP format. A program like \fIawk(1)\fP can write
the file for \fIatos(1NEMO)\fP, then \fIsnapgrid(1NEMO)\fP creates a
\fIimage(5NEMO)\fP file, which can be optionally smoothed using
\fIccdsmooth(1NEMO)\fP and displayed with \fIccdplot(1NEMO)\fP. In case
your host has nicer contour plotting programs, use \fIccdfits(1NEMO)\fP
to write a \fIfits(5NEMO)\fP format file.
Check also the tabccd shell script, if available, or perhaps someone
wrote it in C already. It calls awk, atos and snapgrid.
.PP
The \fIds9(1)\fP program is one of the external programs
which can be used to display images. \fIds9\fP can understand a
variety of FITS compression standards.
Transform your image to a fits file using \fIccdfits(1NEMO)\fP, and use 
ds on that fits file.

.SH "PIPES and SHARED MEMORY"
NEMO encourages you to use pipes where serial operations make sense (see also \fItee(1)\fP).
However on Linux, assuming you have enough memory, using /dev/shm (or anything that uses
\fItmpfs(1)\fP)   will sacrifice your memory to store
data temporarely and could speed up your I/O dominated workflow. Here is an example:
.nf
       mkdir /dev/shm/$USER
       cd /dev/shm/$USER
       mkspiral s000 1000000 nmodel=40
.fi
The example of \fImkspiral(1NEMO)\fP is taken from the NEMO \fIbench(5NEMO)\fP suite, but this example
is actually not very I/O dominated. The variable $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR can also be used, or $TMPDIR,
depending on your system configuration. Another option is using the \fImktemp(1)\fP command,
e.g. \fBmktemp tmp.XXXXXXXX\fB
.PP
Using \fItcppipe(1NEMO)\fP one can read data produced on other machines
.PP
\fIzrun(1)\fP can uncompress on the fly, by prepending it to the command
.nf
	zrun fitsccd ngc6503.fits.gz - | tsf -
.fi
.PP
\fIpee(1)\fP is tee for pipes
.PP
\fIsponge(1)\fP soaks up standard input and writes to a file
.PP
\fIvipe(1)\fP edits a pipe using your editor,e.g.
.nf
	command1 | vipe | command2
.fi
.PP
\fIpv(1)\fP monitors the progress of data through a pipe, e.g.
.nf
        mkplummer - 10000 nmodel=10 | pv | snapscale - . mscale=1
.fi
The (bash) array ${PIPESTATUS[@]} contains the status ($?) for each program in
a unix pipe. In this example it should return "0 0 0".

.SH "PARALLEL and OpenMP"
Most programs in NEMO are still single-core, but many current machines have a number of cores. If a program only
uses a fraction of the memory on the machine, the GNU \fIparallel(1)\fP program can be used to spread the load,
e.g.
.nf
       echo mkplummer . 10000 > run.txt
       echo mkplummer . 10000 >> run.txt
       parallel --jobs 2 < run.txt
.fi
which will run both jobs in parallel.
.PP
One can also use the \fB-j\fP flag of \fBmake\fP of running commands in parallel. Similar to the run.txt file
created here, a well crafted Runfile can be created, and with
.nf
       make -f Runfile -j 2
.fi
should achieve the same result.

.PP
Although NEMO can be configured using \fB--with-openmp\fP to take advantage of multi-cores OpenMP
computing, there are really no programs in NEMO taking advantage of this yet.
However, programs using \fInemo_main()\fP
should be aware of the user interface implications of controlling how many cores are used:
.nf

   0.  the number of cores as per omp_get_num_procs().  We actually take a short-cut and use
       omp_get_max_threads() since it listens to OMP_NUM_THREADS (see next item)
       [the user has no control over this]
   1.  setting the environment variable OMP_NUM_THREADS to the (max) number of cores it will use
   2.  using the \fBnp=\fP system keyword will override any possible setting of OMP_NUM_THREADS
       in the step before.
   
.fi

.SH "SLURM"

slurm is a popular package you will find on HPC systems. See also \fIsbatch_nemo(8NEMO)\fP
for some NEMO specific usage examples.

.SH "TABLES"

Tables (\fItable(5NEMO)\fP) come in many forms. Here are some TLDR type reminder on manipulating and displaying tables
.nf
  # align a table for viewing
  csvlook data.csv
  column -s, -t data.csv
  python -c "import sys,prettytable; print(prettytable.from_csv(sys.stdin))" < data.csv


.SH "SEE ALSO"
nemo(1NEMO), bench(5NEMO), table(5NEMO), tcppipe(1NEMO), sbatch_nemo(8NEMO),
tee(1), pee(1), netcat(1), zrun(1), parallel(1), sponge(1), vipe(1)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben.

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
18-Aug-88	Document created	PJT 
5-mar-89	tabccd added         	PJT
6-mar-89	ds added          	PJT
9-oct-90	fixed some typos	PJT
jan-2020	added pipe/shm		PJT
may-2021	OpenMP			PJT
.fi
