.TH USAGEETA10 8NEMO "3 June 1988"
.SH NAME
usageeta10 \- a very short and simple instruction list for ETA 10 users.
.SH DESCRIPTION
After having read \fIusage205(8NEMO)\fP you can continue with this
document, as the submission of jobs is very much like that on the ETA10.
.PP
A special command file \fBHACK_ETA.COM\fP, written by the JVNC staff, will
do the job for the moment. It operates much like a pep-file,
except that the VAX file names of the input files to 
the treecode (\fBTREEPARS\fP for the 
parameters and \fBTREEBODI\fP for the initial conditions of the N bodies)
will be given to the command file. No \fBPEPPUT\fP is required here
(this was just a matter of how the command file was written).
.PP
At the moment of writing, being in \fIfriendly user period\fP you have
to ask the operators to submit the job for you. This is still a highly
personalized way of working, and I shall not further discuss it here
until a more independant way of submitting jobs has been announced.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.3i
JVNCC::DISK27:[TEUBEN1P.ETA]*.COM	eta submit command file(s)
JVNCC::DISK27:[TEUBEN1P]LOGIN.COM	handy symbols, MicroEmacs (MEM) etc.
JVNCC::DISK27:[TEUBEN1P]EMACSVARS.	useful rebindings for Emacs
JVNCC::DISK27:[TEUBEN1P.CODE]CODE*.COM	private edited PEP command files
JVNCC::DISK27:[TEUBEN1P]JVNC.COM	-just have a look at this one
.fi
.SH BUGS
JVNC went out of business in 1990. Manual page kept for historical reasons.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
usage205(8NEMO)
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
3-jun-88	created after first ETA10 tryout	PJT
9-oct-90	JVNC went out of business        	PJT
