.TH ZENO 8NEMO "10 June 2023"

.SH "URL"
The information below has been copied from
https://www2.ifa.hawaii.edu/faculty/barnes/zeno/Programs.html

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
These programs may be organized thematically into broad categories
performing different tasks: construct initial conditions, run
simulations, analyze and visuialize simulation results, etc. In
practice the categories below are somewhat narrower, reflecting the
fact that two different data structures are widely used in these
programs. A snapshot is used to represent a configuration of bodies in
phase-space; in addition to positions and velocities, snapshots may
also contain other information. A general spherical profile is used to
represent a spherical density profile.
.PP
With a few exceptions, the name of a program indicates the kind of
data it operates on. The simulation programs all have names ending in
the word \fBcode\fP; suffixes may be appended to indicate
variations. Routines which create general spherical profiles have
names ending with the initials \fBgsp\fP, while those which operate on
general spherical profiles have names starting with \fBgsp\fP. Likewise,
routines which create snapshots usually have names ending with the
word \fBsnap\fP, while those which operate on snapshots have names starting
with \fBsnap\fP. (By this logic, routines which construct snapshots from
general spherical profiles should have names starting with gsp and
ending in snap, but this seemed too wordy; the ending snap is
omitted.) Finally, a handfull of programs which operate on any
structured file of data have three-letter names ending with the
initials \fBsf\fP.
.PP
In this listing below, the NEMO functionally
equivalent program(s) are listed when available.
Programs listed with *** do not yet compile within NEMO.
.SH
.nf
.ta +0.5i +2i 
.B N-Body Simulation
  	treecode	  	Hierarchical N-body code (NEMO: hackcode1, gyrfalcON)
  	treecode_x	  	Hierarchical N-body code (+ ext grav) (NEMO: hackcode3)
  	treepeek	  	*** Peek at contents of state file

.B SPH Simulation
  	sphcode_e	  	SPH/N-body simulation code.
  	sphcode_ea	  	SPH/N-body simulation code.
  	sphcode_u	  	SPH/N-body simulation code.
  	sphcode_ui	  	SPH/N-body simulation code.
  	sphcode_ux	  	SPH/N-body simulation code.
  	sphcode_ur	  	SPH/N-body simulation code.
  	sphcode_uo	  	SPH/N-body simulation code.
  	sphcode_ud	  	SPH/N-body simulation code.
  	sphcode_uc	  	SPH/N-body simulation code.
  	sphcode_us	  	SPH/N-body simulation code.
  	sphcode_uis	  	SPH/N-body simulation code.
  	sphcode_uir	  	SPH/N-body simulation code.

.B Snapshot Construction
  	kepsnap 	  	Compute initial data for 2-body orbit
  	makesnap	  	*** Make a configuration of bodies
  	plumsnap	  	Construct Plummer model (NEMO: mkplummer)
  	polysnap	  	Construct generalized polytrope (NEMO: mkpolytrope)
  	snaptestdisk	  	Make test disk in spherical system
  	snapcons	  	Construct compound N-body system (NEMO: mktestdisk)
  	snapstack	  	Stack two N-body systems (NEMO: snapstack)

.B General Spherical Profile Generation
  	expdgsp	  	Generate "spherical" exp. disk
  	gammagsp	  	Generate profile for gamma model
  	halogsp	  	Generate profile for halo model
  	isothgsp	  	Generate isothermal halo profile
  	plumgsp	  	Generate profile for Plummer model
  	polygsp	  	Generate profile for polytropic sphere
  	snapgsp	  	Construct GSP from N-body snapshot
  	tablegsp	  	Convert profile table to GSP

.B General Spherical Profile Utilities
  	gspadd	  	Add several density profiles
  	gspeval	  	Evaluate GSP at particle positions
  	gsplist	  	List general spherical profile
  	gspsmooth	  	Smooth mass distribution of GSP
  	gspsmoothfit	  	Fit smoothed gsp to gravitational field
  	gsptrun	  	Truncate mass distribution of GSP

.B General Spherical Profile Realization
  	gspdisk 	  	Make exponential disk in a gsp model
  	gspmodel	  	Make N-body model of GSP
  	gsprealize	  	Construct N-body realization of GSP.
  	gspsphere	  	Make SPH gas sphere from GSP
  	gsptestdisk	  	Make test disk in a gsp halo

.B Snapshot Assignment
  	snapaux	  	Set aux variable in snapshot
  	snapkey	  	Set key variable in snapshot
  	snapset	  	Set body variables in snapshot
  	buildmap	  	Invoke buildmap routine

.B Snapshot Transformation
  	snapavg 	  	Calculate averages over time
  	snapcenter	  	Center snapshot on weighted bodies (NEMO: snapcenter)
  	snapcollect	  	Collect info from several frames
  	snapforce	  	Compute forces by direct-sum (NEMO: hackforce)
  	snapobject	  	Identify objects using percolation
  	snaprect	  	Diagonalize weight tensor
  	snaprotate	  	Rotate N-body configuration
  	snapsift	  	Select bodies obeying predicate
  	snapsort	  	Sort bodies by value
  	snapsplit	  	Split snapshot into samples
  	snapstream	  	Emit stream of snapshots
  	snaptrak	  	Track centroids of specified groups
  	snapturn	  	Produce stream of rotated snapshots

.B Snapshot Analysis
  	snapcm  	  	Calculate center-of-mass coords (NEMO: snapcenter)
  	snaphist	  	Make histogram of particle data
  	snapshape	  	Estimate ellipticity & r.m.s. radius
  	snapstat	  	Analyze statistics of SnapShot data.
  	snaprholist	  	List spherical density profile

.B Snapshot Output
  	snapascii	  	Convert binary N-body file to ascii (NEMO: stoa)
  	snaplist	  	List contents of snapshot file (NEMO: snapprint)
  	snaptipsy	  	Convert binary N-body file to tipsy (NEMO: snaptipsy)

.B Snapshot Visuialization
  	snapppm	  	Render snapshot as ppm images (NEMO: snapgrid | ccdppm)
  	snapsmooth	  	Smooth N-body/SPH values onto grid
  	snapview	  	Interactively view SnapShot data. [NEMO: glnemo2]
  	viewfile	  	Construct view file

.B Structured File Utilities
  	csf	  	Copy a structured binary file. (NEMO: csf)
  	dsf	  	Dress binary data as structured file.
  	gsf	  	Grab structured binary files.
  	rsf	  	Read ascii form of structured file. (NEMO: rsf)
  	ssf	  	Strip a structured binary file.
  	tsf	  	Type out a structured binary file. (NEMO: tsf)
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
zeno(1NEMO), gsp(5NEMO)

.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
10-jun-2023	copied from ZENO	PJT
.fi
