.. _iface:

User Interface (*)
==================

.. note::
   The command line user interface is a series of *keyword=value* pairs, where
   we differentiate between  :term:`program keyword` and :term:`system keyword`

A NEMO program is invoked just as any other application program under
the operating system, entering its name from a Unix shell, for example:

.. code-block::

    mkplummer

We first explain the command line interface to NEMO programs.
Subsequently, followed by some of the more advanced concepts of this
user interface. We also discuss the overall documentation system in
NEMO, and how to get different types of help.


Keywords
--------

Program Keywords
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::
   The **help=h** *system keyword* gives a nice overview of the *program keywords*.
   Since it is so common, using **--help** invokes the default **help=** showing
   the program keywords and their defaults.

The most basic user interface is formed by the command line interface.
Every NEMO program accepts input through a list
of  **program keywords**,   constructed as '*keyword=value*' 
string pairs on the commandline. We shall go through
a few examples and point out a few noteworthy 
things as we go along. The first example runs an N-body simulation and writes
the results in a file **r001.dat**:

.. code-block::

    1% hackcode1 out=r001.dat

    Hack code: test data
 
       nbody        freq         eps         tol
         128       32.00      0.0500      1.0000

        options: mass,phase

        tnow       T+U       T/U     nttot     nbavg     ncavg   cputime
       0.000   -0.2943   -0.4940      4363        15        18      0.01

                cm pos   -0.0000   -0.0000   -0.0000
                cm vel    0.0000    0.0000   -0.0000

        particle data written

        tnow       T+U       T/U     nttot     nbavg     ncavg   cputime
       0.031   -0.2940   -0.4938      4397        15        18      0.01

                cm pos    0.0000    0.0000   -0.0000
                cm vel    0.0001    0.0001   -0.0000

        tnow       T+U       T/U     nttot     nbavg     ncavg   cputime
       0.062   -0.2938   -0.4941      4523        16        18      0.02

                cm pos    0.0000    0.0000   -0.0000
                cm vel    0.0002    0.0002    0.0000

        ...


will integrate an (automatically generated) stellar system with 128 particles
for 64 time steps.
If your CPU is to slow, abort the program with ``<control>-C`` and
re-run it with fewer particles:

.. code-block::

   ....
   <Control>-C 
   2% hackcode1 out=r001.dat nbody=32 > r001.log
   ### Fatal error [hackcode1] stropen in hackcode1: file "r001.dat" already exists
   3% rm r001.dat
   4% hackcode1 out=r001.dat nbody=32 > r001.log


This example already shows a few peculiarities of the NEMO user interface,
as shown by the line starting with **###**. It is generated by the
*error* routine, which immediately aborts the program with a message to the terminal, even
if the normal output was diverted
to a log-file, as in this example.
The error shows that in general NEMO programs do not allow 
files to be overwritten, and hence the ``r001.dat`` file,
which was already (partially) created in the previous run, must be
deleted before **hackcode1** can be re-run with the same
keywords. The datafile, **r001.dat**, is in a peculiar binary
format, which we shall discuss in the next chapter.

Now, plotting the first snapshot of the run, i.e. the initial conditions, can be done as follows:


.. code-block::

    5% snapplot in=r001.dat times=0


It plots an X-Y projection of the initial conditions from the
data file ``r001.dat`` at time 0.0.  Your display will hopefully look
something like the one displayed in Figure ???

..   % \PSinsert{encounter1.ps}{7.5}{7.5}{0.5}{0.5}{1}{0}

There are many more keywords to this particular program, but they all have
sensible default values and don't have to be supplied.
However, an invocation like


.. code-block::

    6% snapplot


will generally result in an error message, and shows
you the minimum list of 
keywords which need a value. ``snapplot`` will then output
something like


.. code-block::

    Insufficient parameters, try keyword 'help=', otherwise:
    Usage: snapplot in=??? ...
    plot particle positions from a snapshot file


which already suggests that issuing the ``help=`` keyword
will list all possible keywords and their associated defaults:


.. code-block::

    7% snapplot help=


results in something like:


.. code-block::

    snapplot in=??? times=all xvar=x xlabel= xrange=-2.0:2.0 
        yvar=y ylabel= yrange=-2.0:2.0 visib=1 psize=0 
        fill_circle=t frame= VERSION=1.3f


As you see, ``snapplot`` happens to be a program
with quite an extensive parameter list.
Also note that ``help`` itself is not listed in the above list of program
keywords because it is a **system keyword**
(more on these later).

There are a few *short-cut*
in this user interface worth mentioning 
at this
stage.  First of all, keywords don't have to be specified 
by name, as long as you specify values in the correct
order, they will be associated by the appropriate keyword.
The order of program keywords can be seen with
the keyword ``help=``.
The moment you deviate from
this order, or leave gaps, all 
values must be accompanied by their keywords, *i.e.* in
the example


.. code-block::

    8% snapplot r001.dat 0,2 xrange=-5:5 yrange=-5:5 "visib=i<10"


the second argument ``0,2`` binds to ``times=0,2``; but if a value
``"i<10"`` for ``visib`` (the keyword immediately following
``yrange=``) would be needed, the full
``"visib=i<10"`` would have  to be supplied to the command line,
anywhere after the first ``0,2`` where the keywords are explicitly
named. Also note the use of quotes around the ``visib=`` keyword, to prevent the UNIX shell
from interpreting the ``<`` sign for I/O redirection. In this 
particular case double as well as single quotes would have worked.

There are two other user interface short-cuts worth knowing about.
The ``macro-include`` or ``keyword include``
allows you to prefix an existing
filename with the ``@``-symbol, which causes the contents
of that file to become the keyword value. In UNIX the following two
are nearly equivalent (treatment of multiple lines may cause
differences in the subsequent parsing of the keyword value):

.. code-block::

    9% program a=@keyfile
   10% program a="`cat keyfile`"


Also useful is the ``reference include``,
which uses the ``$``-symbol to
prefix another program keyword, and causes the contents of that keyword
to be included in-place.  An obvious warning is in place: you cannot use
recursion here.  So, for example,


.. code-block::

   11% program a=$b b=$a          <---- illegal !!!


will probably cause the user interface to run out of memory or return
something meaningless. Also, since
the ``$``-symbol has special meaning to the UNIX shell, it has to be
passed in a special way, for example


.. code-block::

   12% program a=5 b=3+\$a
   13% program a=5 'b=3+$a'


are both equivalent.

.. A third interesting shortcut is something new and introduced in version 3.2,
   which allows keyword references using the \% symbol to cut accross programs.

System Keywords
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As just mentioned before, there are a fixed set of keywords to every NEMO
program which are the *hidden* **system keywords**
their values are defined automatically for the user by the
user-interface routines from environment variables or, when absent,
sensible preset defaults.  They handle certain global (system) features
and are not listed through the ``help=`` keyword.  Of course their
values can always be overridden by supplying it as a system parameter on
the command line.   To get an active list of the system keywords, try


.. code-block::

   tsf help=\?


In summary, the system keywords are:


- **help=**
  The help= keyword itself, gives you a list of all
  available keywords to this specific program but can also aid you in
  command completion and/or explanation of keywords. 

- **debug=**
  The debug= keyword lets you upgrade the debug output
  level.  This may be useful to check proper execution when a program
  seemingly takes too long to complete, or to trace weird errors.
  Output is to *stderr* though. Default level is 0.
  Some unix tools how to deal with pipes
  is useful (redir, ....)

- **error=**
  The error= keyword allows you to override a specified number
  of fatal error calls. Not adviced really, but it's there to use in
  case you really know what you're doing (bypassing existence
  of an output file is a very common use).
  Default is 0.

- **yapp=**
  The  yapp= keyword lets you (re)define the graphics
  output device. Usually no default.

- **outkeys=**
  This is a new feature under development, effectively allows exporting
  information in text strings back to the shell.

- **review=**
  The review= keyword jumps the user into the REVIEW section
  before the actual execution of the NEMO program for a last review of
  the parameters before execution starts. (see also next section).

- **review=**
  Interrupt mode to review keyword before execution

- **tcl=**
  Deprecated

- **np=**
  Number of processors (for OpenMP) to maximally use. Default is max.

For a more detailed description of the system keywords and all their options
see :ref:`aiface`.  The actual degree of implementation of the system
keywords can be site dependent.  Use the ``help=\?`` argument to any
NEMO program to glean into the options the user interface was compiled with.
Recent updates can also be found in NEMO's
online manual pages, *getparam(3NEMO)*. 



Advanced User Interfaces
------------------------

The command-line interface, as we described it above, makes it
relatively straightforward to *plug in* any other front-end as a new
user interface with possibly a very different look-and-feel.
In fact, the command-line interface is the most primitive
front-end that we can think of: most host shell interpreters can be
used to perform various short-cuts in executing programs.  Modern 
interactive UNIX
shells like ``tcsh`` and ``bash``
can be used very efficiently in this mode. 
In batch mode shell scripts, if used properly, can provide a very
powerful method of running complex simulations.
Other plug-compatible
interfaces that are available are ``mirtool`` and ``miriad``,
described in more detail in
Appendix~\ref{s:mirtool} and \ref{s:miriad} There was also a
Khoros (cantata, under khoros V1)
interface (``http://www.khoral.com``) available, but this product is not
open source anymore.
Lastly, lets not forget scripting languages like python, perl and ruby. 
Although the class UNIX (c)sh shell is very WYSIWYG, with a modest amount
of investment the programmability of higher level scripts can give you
a very powerful programming environment.


tkrun
~~~~~

The ``tkrun`` program can take directives strategically placed in the
comment fields of a shell script, and provide a dynamical GUI frontend to
the command line parameters. Since the GUI is built up automatically,
the number of keyword should be limited to a dozen or so, as vertical
space is limited in most desktop managers.

Interrupt to the REVIEW section 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. warning::
   Interrupting to the REVIEW section is not enabled by default, and is likely
   being deprecated in some future release.

NEMO programs are generally 
not interactive, they are of the so-called
*load-and-go* type, i.e. at startup all necessary parameters are
supplied either through the commandline, or, as will be described later,
a keyword file or even a combination thereof.  The actual program is then
started until it's all done.  There is no feedback possible to the user.  
This is particularly convenient when combining programs into a script
or batch type environments.

There are of course a few exceptions.  Certain graphics interfaces
require the user to push a button on the keyboard or click the mouse to
advance to a next frame or something like that; a few very old NEMO
programs may still get their input through user defined routines
(they will become obsolete).


Help
----

The HELP system in NEMO is manyfold, nice but with the obvious danger
that things get updated in one place and outdated in another. With that
caveat, here are various help options:


- Inline help,
    The ``help=`` system keyword
    is available for each NEMO program. Since this is compiled
    into the program, you can copy a program to another
    system, without all the NEMO system support, and still
    have a little bit of help. Use ``help=h`` to get the
    keyword descriptions and more vertical space.

    The special ``--help`` option is allowed for those with gnu fingers.

    The special ``--man`` option delivers the unix style man
    page (see next item).

- Unix manual pages
    for programs, functions, and file
    formats, all in good old UNIX tradition. All these
    files live in ``$NEMO/man`` and below.
    Several interfaces to the manual pages
    are now available:

    * man
        good old UNIX ``man``  (this relies on 
        **$MANPATH** environment variable)
        The ``manpdf`` script
	can print out the manual pages in a pretty decent form.
    * xman
        The X-windows utility {\it xman(1)} provides a
        point-and-click interface, and also has a decent
        {\it whatis} interface. 
    * tkman
        The Tcl/Tk X-windows utility ``tkman`` formats
        manual pages on-the-fly and allows hypertextual
        moving around.  and has lots of good
        options, such as dynamic manipulation of the
        **$MANPATH** elements, a history and bookmark
        mechanism etc.
    * gman
        Under GNOME the ``gman`` formats tool
	has nice browsing capabilities.
    * html
        The html formatted manual pages. Has some limited form of hypertext,
        but contains the links to general UNIX manual
        pages, if properly addressed.  Try the `github link <https://teuben.github.io/nemo/man_html/index.html>`_ or `local pages <../../../man_html/index.html>`_ 

- The old manual, the *The NEMO User and Programmers Guide*,
    contains information on a wide level, aimed at beginners
    as well as advanced users, and at is being coverted to this RST
    manual, outdated.

- This manual, in **reStructuredText** might be available in many different formats. html and pdf are the common ones.
    

.. _aiface:


Every NEMO program accepts input through a user supplied parameter list
of *keyword=value* arguments. In addition to these program specific
**program keywords**,
there are a number of system wide  defined **system keywords**,
known to every NEMO program.

Program keywords
----------------

Program keywords are unique to a program, and need to be
looked up in the online manual page or by using the 
``help=`` system keyword (dubbed the **inline** help). Parsing of
*values* is usually done, though sometimes primitive. Program
keywords also have the ability to read the value(s) of a keyword from a file
through the ``keyword=@file`` construct. This is called the 
**include keyword file**, and is very handy for long keyword values,
not having to escape shell characters etc.  Newlines are replaced by blanks.

System keywords
---------------

The 'hidden' system keywords, although overridden by 
any program defined counterpart, can also be set by an 
equivalent environment variable (in upper case).



- **help=** Sets the help level to a program. As with all
  system keywords, their value can be fixed for
  a session by setting the appropriate
  environment variable in upper case, *e.g.* ``expor HELP=5``.


  By using the keyword form, the value of the environment variable 
  will be ignored.

  The individual help levels are numeric and add up to combine
  functionality, and are hence powers of 2:

  - ``1`` Remembers previous usage of a program, by
    maintaining a keyword file from program to program.  These files are
    normally stored in the current directory, but can optionally be stored
    in one common directory if the environment variable 
    {\bf NEMODEF}\footnote{mirtool also uses this environment variable} is
    set.  The keyword files have the name {{\it "progname"}{\bf.def}},
    {\it e.g.} {\tt snapshot.def}\footnote{This may result in long
    filenames, Unix SYS5 allows only 14 characters - a different solution is
    needed here}.  When using this lowest help-level it is still possible to
    use UNIX I/O redirection.  This help level
    reads, as well as writes the keyword file during the program execution;
    hence the user needs both 
    read and write permission in the keyword directory.  As can also
    be seen, programs cannot run in parallel while using this help-level: they
    might compete for the same keyword file.
    Within the simple commandline interface it is not possible
    to maintain a global keyword database, as is {\it e.g.}  the case in AIPS;
    you would have to use the {\tt miriad} shell.

  - ``2`` prompts the user for a (new) value for every
    keyword; it shows the default (old) value on the prompt line, which can
    then be edited.  
    It is not possible to combine this level with UNIX I/O redirection. 
    By combining the previous helplevel with this one, previous
    values and modified ones are maintained in a keyword file.

  - ``4`` provides a simple fullscreen menu interface, by having
    the user edit the keyword file. The environment variable
    {\bf EDITOR} can be used to set any other editor than good old 
    {\it vi(1)}.
    It is not possible to combine this level with UNIX I/O redirection. 

  - ``8,16,...`` although not processed, higher powers of 2 are reserved for
    future options


    Example: ``help=3`` will remember old keywords in a local keyword file,
    prompt you with new values, and puts the new values in the keyword file
    for the next time.  The ``help=5`` option happen to be 
    somewhat similar to the way ``AIIPS`` and ``IRAF`` appear to the user. 

    Help levels can also include an alpha-string, which generally display
    the values of the keyword, their default values or their help strings.

  - ``?``
    lists all these options, as a reminder. It also displays the
    version \index{version, user interface} of the 
    {\tt getparam} user interface package.

  - ``h``
    list all the keywords, plus a help string what the keywords does/expects.
    This is really what we call the inline manual or inline 
    help. \index{inline, help} \index{manual, inline} \index{help, inline}

  - ``a``
    list all arguments in the form {\it keyword=value}.

  - ``p,k``
    list parameters (keywords) of all arguments in the form {\it keyword}.

  - ``d,v``
    list defaults (values) of all arguments in the form {\it value}.

  - ``n``
    add a newline to every {\it keyword/value} string on output.
    In this way a keyword file could be build manually by redirecting this
    output.

  - ``t``
    output a documentation file according to the
    \%N,\%A specifications \index{mirtool} of 
    {\tt miriad}\footnote{Both {\tt mirtool} and {\tt miriad} need such a doc-file
    \index{doc file, miriad} to lookup keywords and supply help}.
    Is mainly intended to be used by scripts such as {\tt mktool}. 
    The procedure in NEMO to update a {\tt .doc} file would be:

    .. code-block::

         % program help=t > $NEMODOC/program.doc

  - ``q``
    quit, do not start program. Useful when the helpstring contains
    options to print.

    Example: **key=val help=1q** redefines a keyword in the keywordfile,
    but does not run the program. This is also a way to 'repair' a keyword
    file, when the program has been updated with new keywords.
    **key=val help=1aq** redefines the keyword,
    shows the results but does still not run the program. 
    Finally, **key=val help=1a** redefines a keyword, shows
    the result and then runs the program.


- **debug=**  Changes the debug output level.  
  The higher the debug
  level, the more output can appear on the standard error output device
  ``stderr``.  The default value is either 0 or the value set by the
  **DEBUG** environment variable.  The use of the ``debug=`` keyword
  will override your default setting.  A value of '0' for debug 
  may still show some warning messages.  Setting debug to 
  -1 will prevent even those warning/debug messages.  Legal values are 0
  through 9.  Values of **DEBUG** higher than 9 are not used, or
  you may get some weird screen output. Values larger than
  5 cause an error to coredump, which can then be used with debug utilities
  like *abd(1)* and *gdb(1)*.

- **error=** Specifies how many times the fatal error routine can be
  bypassed. The **ERROR** environment
  variable can also be set for this. The default, if neither of them
  present, is 0.

- **yapp=** Defines the device to which graphics output is send. 
  Currently only interpreted for a limited number of yapp devices.  
  Some yapp
  devices do not even listen to this keyword.  Check *yapp(5NEMO)* or
  your local NEMO guru which one is installed.  The default device is
  either 0 or the value set by the **YAPP** environment variable.

- **np=**  Defines the number of processors (e.g. in an OpenMP setting)
  that can be used. This would override the OMP_NUM_THREADS environment
  variable, if it was present.

- **outkeys=**  TBD

- **argv=**  TBD

YAPP
----


yapp_ps
~~~~~~~

By default NEMO is compile with a very simple PostScript device driver, as
specified in yapp_ps. This YAPP interface  produces a simple PS
(supposedly correctly calibrated to be 20 x 20 cm), and 
the yapp= keyword value specifies the PS filename.

yapp_pgplot
~~~~~~~~~~~

The YAPP interface to the common PGPLOT library is the most used
interface, and allow one to select from a variety of graphics output
devices without having to recompile the program.

A graphics device in PGPLOT
is defined by preceding it with a slash
Optional parameters (e.g. filename, X device etc.)
can be supplied before the slash. The following
list gives an overview of some of the available devices
(your list may be a lot shorter (see ``?``) in list below):

.. code-block::

       ?           Get a list of all currently defined graphics devices   
       /XTERM     (XTERM Tek terminal emulator)
       /XWINDOW   (X window window@node:display.screen/xw)
       /XSERVE    (A /XWINDOW window that persists for re-use)
    Non-interactive file formats:
       /NULL      (Null device, no output)
       /PNG       (Portable Network Graphics file)
       /TPNG      (Portable Network Graphics file - transparent background)
       /PS        (PostScript file, landscape orientation)
       /VPS       (PostScript file, portrait orientation)
       /CPS       (Colour PostScript file, landscape orientation)
       /VCPS      (Colour PostScript file, portrait orientation)
       /EPS       (Encapsulated Postscript, colour)


See also manual pages such as *getparam(3NEMO)* and
*yapp(5NEMO)*

A special script ``yapp_query`` is available for **yapp_pgplot** in order to
provide script writers with a way to select between possibly not implemented
device drivers

.. code-block:: bash

   dev=$(yapp_query png ps gif)
   mkplummer - 100 | snapplot -  yapp=fig1.$dev/$dev


   
   

