.\" $Header
.if t .ds LX L\v'-.22m'a\v'.22m'T\h'-.1667m'\v'.22m'E\h'-.125m'\v'-.22m'X
.if n .ds LX LaTeX
.TH INDEX 5 TRW
.UC
.SH NAME
index \- format of alphabetization stanza for LaTeX index processor
.SH ORIGIN
TRW
.SH SYNOPSIS
~/.alphabetize
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \*(LX index processor
.IR index (1)
reads the file
.I .alphabetize
file in the home directory to determine
how to sort index entries.
This file is in 
.IR profile (5)
format and consists of a stanza containing bindings.
These bindings consist of key/value pairs.
There may be multiple values for each key.
.PP
The stanza contained in the 
.I .alphabetize 
file should contain one stanza with the marker 
.I alphabetize.
This stanza may contain three keys: 
.I skipchars,
.I mapctrlsequence 
and 
.I mapindexentry.
.PP
.I Skipchars
is a list of characters to ignore when alphabetizing index entries.
.PP
.I Mapctrlsequence
is a list of pairs of values.
The odd numbered value 
.I n
(a control sequence)
maps into the even value
.I n+1
(any text).
The leading backslash may 
be omitted for the odd control sequence strings.
.PP
.I Mapindexentry
is a list of index entries to match exactly.
The odd numbered value
.I n
(an index entry) maps into the even value
.I n+1
(any text).
The backslashes
may not be omitted here.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is an example stanza to help clarify some ideas.
.RS
.nf
.ta \w'    mapctrlsequence     'u
alphabetize
{
    skipchars		'{' '}' '$' '\e^' '\e'' '`' '_' '"'
    mapctrlsequence	"\e\etrwlogo" "TRW" \e
			"LaTeX" "LaTeX"
    mapindexentry	"\e\everb|\e\e\e\e|" "\e\e" \e
			"\e\everb|\e\e\e"|" "\e""
}
.fi
.RE
When alphabetizing the index file, the characters {, }, $, ^, ', `, _,
and " will be ignored.
.IR Profile (5)
requires escaping the ^, ' and \e.
.PP
The control word
.I \etrwlogo
will be treated as the string
.I TRW
wherever it occurs in an index entry
and the control word
.I \eLaTeX
will be treated as 
.I LaTeX
wherever it occurs in an index entry.
Note that the leading backslash in the third value (i.e.,
.IR \eLaTeX )
can be omitted without ill effect.
Normally, control words and control symbols are removed when alphabetizing.
.PP
The index entries
.I \everb|\e\e|
and
\fI\everb|\e"|\fR
will be treated as \e and " when alphabetizing, respectively.
.PP
Here is one last example illustrating the sorting rules.
Suppose we have the stanza
.RS
.nf
.ta \w'    mapctrlsequence     'u
alphabetize
{
    skipchars		'{' '}'
    mapctrlsequence	"\e\ehello" "salutation"
    mapindexentry	"{\e\ela de da}" "z"
}
.fi
.RE
and we have the
.I \eindex
commands
.RS
.nf
\eindex{{\ebf Orca!} kills}
\eindex{say,{\ela de da}}
\eindex{say,{\ehello} there}
\eindex{say,mazzard}
\eindex{{\ela de da} de da}
\eindex{{\eit Wolfman} Jack}
.fi
.RE
sprinkled throughout the document.
\*(LX may generate the following 
.I idx
file
.RS
.nf
\eindexentry{{\ebf Orca!} kills}{5}
\eindexentry{say,{\ela de da}}{10}
\eindexentry{say,{\ehello} there}{15}
\eindexentry{say,mazzard}{20}
\eindexentry{{\ela de da} de da}{25}
\eindexentry{{\eit Wolfman} Jack}{30}
.fi
.RE
After running through
.I index
we obtain the 
.I ind
file
.RS
.nf
\ebegin{theindex}
\eitem {\ela de da} de da 25
\eindexspace
\eitem {\ebf Orca!} kills 5
\eindexspace
\eitem say
  \esubitem mazzard 20
  \esubitem {\ehello} there 15
  \esubitem {\ela de da} 10
\eindexspace
\eitem {\eit Wolfman} Jack 30
\eend{theindex}
.fi
.RE
The entries are logically sorted using the strings
.RS
.nf
dedadeda
Orca!kills
say
  mazzard
  salutationthere
  z
WolfmanJack
.fi
.RE
Note that the 
.I mapindexentry
must match everything between the commas and braces while the 
.I mapctrlsequence
matches control sequences anywhere within the index entry.
.SH COMMENTS
The 
.I mapindexentry 
entries are examined first and must completely match an index entry.
If they match, no other alphabetizing substitution takes place.
.br
Upper and lower case letters are equivalent when sorting.
Upper case alphabetics are converted to lower case; consequently,
most non-alphabetic characters precede the alphabetic characters
in the ASCII collating sequence.
The exception are the characters {, |, } and ~.
.br
Blanks are ignored when sorting.
.br
After control sequences are expanded into their logical sort string,
they are not scanned for
.I skipchars.
.br
Lowercase roman numerals are recognized when the \epagestyle is roman.
They always precede their arabic counterparts.
Uppercase roman numerals are not recognized.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'~/.alphabetize   'u
~/.alphabetize	alphabetization file
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Scott Simpson
.SH SEE ALSO
index(1), profile(3), profile(5), ascii(7)
.SH BUGS
This manual page is confusing.
