.TH RosettaMan 1
.SH "NAME "
RosettaMan, rman - reverse compile man pages from formatted form 
to a number of source formats 
.SH "SYNOPSIS "
rman [options] [file] 
.SH "DESCRIPTION "
\fIRosettaMan \fR takes formatted man pages from most of the 
popular flavors of UNIX and transforms them into any of a number 
of text source formats. \fIRosettaMan \fR accepts formatted man 
pages from: Hewlett-Packard HP-UX, AT System V, SunOS, Sun Solaris, 
OSF/1, DEC Ultrix, SGI IRIX, Linux. It can produce ASCII-only, 
section headers-only, TkMan, [tn]roff, Ensemble, SGML, HTML, 
LaTeX, RTF, Perl 5 POD. A modular architecture permits easy addition 
of additional output formats. 
.SH "OPTIONS "
.TP 15
-f <ASCII|roff|TkMan|Ensemble|Sections|HTML|SGML|LaTeX|RTF|POD> 
Set the output filter. Defaults to ASCII. 
.TP 15
-b 
Try to recognize subsection titles in addition to section titles. 
This can cause problems on some UNIX systems. 
.TP 15
-t \fI# \fR
For those macros sets that use tabs in place of spaces where 
possible in order to reduce the number of characters used, set 
tabstops every # columns. Defaults to 8. 
.TP 15
-c 
Move changebars, such as those found in the Tcl/Tk manual pages, 
to the left. 
.TP 15
-m 
\fIDisable \fR aggressive man page parsing. Aggressive manual, 
which is on by default, page parsing elides headers and footers, 
identifies sections and more. 
.TP 15
-v 
Show version number and exit. 
.TP 15
-n \fIname \fR
Set name of man page (used in roff format). If the filename is 
given in the form " \fIname \fR. \fIsection \fR", the name and 
section are automatically determined. 
.TP 15
-s \fI# \fR
Set volume (aka section) number of man page (used in roff format). 
.TP 15
-p 
paragraph mode toggle. The filter determines whether lines should 
be linebroken as they were by nroff, or whether lines should 
be flowed together into paragraphs. Mainly for internal use. 
.TP 15
-r \fIprintf-string \fR
In HTML mode this sets the URL form by which to retrieve other 
man pages. The string can use two supplied parameters: the man 
page name and its section. (See the Examples section.) 
.TP 15
-l \fIprintf-string \fR
In HTML mode this sets the <TITLE> of the man pages, given the 
same parameters as \fI-r \fR. 
.TP 15
-K 
Indicate manual pages don't have page breaks, so don't look for 
footers and headers around them. (Older nroff -man macros always 
put in page breaks, but lately some vendors have realized that 
printout are made through troff, whereas nroff -man is used to 
format pages for reading on screen, and so have eliminated page 
breaks.) \fIRosettaMan \fR usually gets this right even without 
this flag. 
.TP 15
-T 
Turn on aggressive table parsing. 
.SH "NOTES ON FILTER TYPES "
.SS "ROFF "
Some flavors of UNIX ship without [tn]roff source, making one's 
laser printer, for man pages, little more than a laser line printer. 
This filer tries to intuit the original [tn]roff directives, 
which can then be recompiled by [tn]roff. 
.SS "TkMan "
TkMan, a hypertext man page browser, uses \fIRosettaMan \fR to 
show man pages without the (usually) useless headers and footers 
on each pages. It also collects section and (optionally) subsection 
heads for direct access from a pulldown menu. TkMan and Tcl/Tk, 
the toolkit in which it's written, are available via anonymous 
ftp from \fIftp.cs.berkeley.edu \fR in the directories \fI/ucb/people/phelps/tcltk \fR
and \fI/ucb/tcl \fR. 
.SS "Ensemble "
Ensemble, a multimedia editor of structured documents, is currently 
being developed by the research groups of Professors Michael 
A. Harrison and Susan L. Graham at the University of California, 
Berkeley. With proper structure and presentation specifications (schemas), 
the appearance of a manual page can be radically transformed 
by Ensemble. 
.SS "ASCII "
When printed on a line printer, man pages try to produce special 
text effects by overstriking characters with themselves (to produce 
bold) and underscores (underlining). Other text processing software, 
such as text editors, searchers, and indexers, must counteract 
this. The ASCII filter strips away this formatting. Piping nroff 
output through \fIcol -b \fR also strips away this formatting, 
but it leaves behind unsightly page headers and footers. 
.SS "Sections "
Dumps section and (optionally) subsection titles. 
.SS "HTML "
With a simple extention to an HTTP server for Mosaic or other 
World Wide Web browser, \fIRosettaMan \fR can produce high quality 
HTML on the fly. Several such extensions and pointers to several 
others are included in \fIRosettaMan \fR's \fIcontrib \fR directory. 
.SS "SGML "
I just discovered the Davenport DTD, and support for it will 
be coming Real Soon Now. 
.SS "LaTeX "
Why not? 
.SS "RTF "
Use output on Mac or NeXT or whatever. Maybe take random man 
pages and integrate with NeXT's documentation system better. 
Maybe NeXT has own man page macros that do this. 
.SH "EXAMPLES "
To convert the \fIformatted \fR man page named \fIls.1 \fR back 
into [tn]roff source form: \fIrman -f roff /usr/local/man/cat1/ls.1 > /usr/local/man/man1/ls.1 \fR
\.br
.PP
Long man pages are often compressed to conserve space (compression 
is especially effective on formatted man pages as many of the 
characters are spaces). As it is a long man page, it probably 
has subsections, which we try to separate out (some macro sets 
don't distinguish subsections well enough for \fIRosettaMan \fR
to detect them). Let's convert this to LaTeX format: 
\.br
\fIpcat /usr/catman/a_man/cat1/automount.z | rman -b -n automount -s 1 -f 
latex > automount.man \fR
\.br
.PP
Alternatively, \fIman 1 automount | rman -b -n automount -s 1 -f 
latex > automount.man \fR
\.br
.PP
For HTML/Mosaic users, \fIRosettaMan \fR can, without modification 
of the source code, produce HTML links that point to other HTML 
man pages either pregenerated or generated on the fly. First 
let's assume pregenerated HTML versions of man pages stored in \fI/usr/man/html \fR. 
Generate these one-by-one with the following form: 
\.br
\fIrman -f html -r 'http:/usr/man/html/%s.%s.html' /usr/man/cat1/ls.1 > /usr/man/html/ls.1.html \fR
\.br
.PP
If you've extended your HTML client to generate HTML on the fly 
you should use something like: 
\.br
\fIrman -f html -r 'http:~/bin/man2html?%s:%s' /usr/man/cat1/ls.1 \fR
\.br
when generating HTML. 
.SH "BUGS/INCOMPATIBILITIES "
\fIRosettaMan \fR is not perfect in all cases, but it usually 
does a good job, and in any case reduces the problem of converting 
man pages to light editing. 
.PP
Tables, especially H-P's, aren't handled very well; fortunately, 
tables seem to be rare in man pages. 
.PP
The man pager \fIwoman \fR applies its own idea of formatting 
for man pages, which can confuse \fIRosettaMan \fR. Bypass \fI
woman \fR by passing the formatted manual page text directly 
into \fIRosettaMan \fR. 
.PP
The [tn]roff output format uses \\fB to turn on boldface. If 
your macro set requires .B, you'll have to a postprocess the \fI
RosettaMan \fR output. 
.SH "SEE ALSO "
\fItkman(1) \fR, \fIxman(1) \fR, \fIman(1) \fR, \fIman(7) \fR
.SH "COPYRIGHT "
RosettaMan 
\.br
Copyright (c) 1993-1994 T.A. Phelps ( \fIphelps@CS.Berkeley.EDU \fR) 
\.br
All Rights Reserved. 
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software 
and its documentation for educational, research and non-profit 
purposes, without fee, and without a written agreement is hereby 
granted, provided that the above copyright notice and the following 
paragraph appears in all copies. 
.PP
Permission to incorporate this software into commercial products 
may be obtained from the Office of Technology Licensing, 2150 
Shattuck Avenue, Suite 510, Berkeley, CA 94704. 
.PP
Manual page last updated on $Date$ 