.TH TkMan 1
.SH NAME
TkMan, tkman \- a graphical manual page browser, with hypertext
.SH "A BIRD? A PLANE? TKMAN! (TKPERSON?) "
by Tom Phelps written in Tcl 7.0/Tk 3.3 
\.br
Compatible with Hewlett-Packard HP-UX, AT&T System V, SunOS, 
Sun Solaris, OSF/1, DEC Ultrix, SGI IRIX, Linux, SCO, IBM AIX 
.PP
Copyright \251 1993-1994 T. A. Phelps 
\.br
All Rights Reserved. 
\.br
University of California, Berkeley 
\.br
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science 
\.br
Computer Science Division 
.PP
The latest version of TkMan is always available by anonymous 
FTP \fR at \fIftp.cs.Berkeley.EDU \fR in the \fI/ucb/people/phelps/tcltk \fR
directory. 
.PP
PERMISSION IS GRANTED TO DISTRIBUTE THIS SOFTWARE FREELY, BUT 
ONE MAY NOT CHARGE FOR IT OR INCLUDE IT WITH SOFTWARE WHICH IS 
SOLD. \fR
.PP
If you send me bug reports and/or suggestions for new features, 
include the versions of TkMan, Tcl, Tk, X, and UNIX, your machine 
and X window manager names, and a copy of your \fI~/.tkman \fR
file. First check that values changed in the Makefile or source 
code aren't being unexpectedly overridden in the \fI~/.tkman \fR
startup script. 
.SH "INTRODUCTION "
A manual page browser, TkMan offers two major advantages over 
xman : hypertext links to other man pages (click on a word in 
the text which corresponds to a man page, and you jump there), 
and better navigation within long man pages with searches (both 
incremental and regular expression) and jumps to section headers. 
TkMan also offers some convenience features, like a user-configurable 
list of commonly used man pages, a one-click printout, and integration 
of whatis  and apropos . Further, one may highlight, as if with 
a yellow marker, arbitrary passages of text in man pages and 
subsequently jump directly to these passages by selecting an 
identifying excerpt from a pulldown menu. Finally, TkMan gives 
one control over the directory-to-menu volume mapping of man 
pages with a capability similar to but superior to \fIxman \fR's 
mandesc in that rather than forcing all who share a man directory 
to follow a single organization, TkMan gives control to the individual. 
In fact, one may decide he has no use for a large set of man 
pages--say for instance the programmer routines in volumes 2, 3, 4, 8--and 
eliminate them from his personal database. 
.PP
Since man page formatting follows conventions but not rigid standards, 
not all man pages can be parsed fully. However, most yield their 
section titles and SEE ALSO \fRs and their emphasized words. 
TkMan also tries to filter out the unsightly page footers and 
headers put in by \fInroff \fR, but nonstandard formatting can 
slip by. 
.PP
First I'll describe how to use TkMan, although I hope that the 
use of most features is intuitive. At the end are my address 
and UC's disclaimer and licensing information. 
.SH "USING TKMAN "
.SS "Locating a man page "
There are several ways to specify the manual page you desire. 
You can type its name into the entry box at the top of the screen 
and press Return or click the \fIman \fR button. The name may 
be just the name of the command or may include a \fI. \fR\fIn \fR
or \fI( \fR\fIn \fR\fI) \fR at the end where \fIn \fR specifies 
in which section to look. Man pages are matched using regular 
expressions, so you can use \fI. \fR to match any single character, \fI* \fR
to match any (zero or more) of the previous regular expression, \fI[ \fR.. \fI] \fR
to match any single character in the enclosed class; see Tcl 's 
regexp(n)  for more information. For instance, \fI.*mail.*\\.1 \fR
searches section 1 (user commands) for commands with "mail" anywhere 
in their names. Likewise, one can collect all the various manual 
pages relating to Perl 5 with \fIperl.* \fR. If you're running 
TkMan from a shell and giving it an initial man page name to 
load up as an argument, use this syntax (adequately quoted for 
protection from the shell), as opposed to the syntax of the standard \fI
man \fR command (which is \fIman \fR\fIsection \fR\fIname \fR--that 
is, the section number comes first, whereas in TkMan it is part 
of the name). Usually TkMan searches the directories in your 
MANPATH \fR environment variable for the man page, but you may 
instead provide a path name for the man page by beginning it 
with `~', `/', `.' or `..'; this is the way to access a man page 
which isn't installed in a MANPATH \fR man directory. Further, 
other Tcl interpreters may display a man page in TkMan by \fI
send \fRing a message to the function \fImanShowMan \fR with 
the name of the desired man page, e.g. \fIsend tkman manShowMan 
tcl.n \fR. If multiple man page names match the specification, 
the first match (as searched for in MANPATH \fR order) is shown 
and a pulldown menu appears which contains a list of the other 
matches. Return from reading help or a volume listing to the 
last man page seen with \fIC-m \fR when the focus is in the main 
text display area. 
.PP
\fIapropos \fR information is available by typing the name and 
clicking \fIapropos \fR or hitting Shift-Return. The output of \fI
apropos \fR is piped through \fIsort \fR and \fIuniq \fR to remove 
duplicates. To pass the matches through additional filters, simply 
give the pipe as in a shell, e.g., ` \fIsearch | grep ^g \fR' (each 
space character is significant) returns all the search-related 
commands which begin with the letter \fIg \fR. The results of 
the last apropos query are available under the \fIVolumes \fR
menu. 
.PP
You may also see a button for \fIglimpse \fR, a full text search 
program that requires only small index files (typically 2-5% 
the size of the original text), written by Udi Manber, Sun Wu, 
and Burra Gopal, Department of Computer Science, University of 
Arizona. In their performance measurements, "a search for Schwarzkopf 
allowing two misspelling errors in 5600 files occupying 77MB 
took 7 seconds on a SUN IPC." For example, one may search for 
the string `WWW' anywhere in any manual page by typing in `WWW' 
in the entry line at the top of the screen and clicking on the \fI
glimpse \fR button or typing \fIMeta-Return \fR (for meta-information, 
of course). \fIEscape \fR and \fIC-g \fR can interrupt a search 
after the current directory is done. To employ \fIglimpse \fR's 
command line options, simply place them before the search pattern 
in the entry box, or add them to the default options by editing 
the \fIman(glimpse) \fR variable in your \fI~/.tkman \fR startup 
file (see Customizing TkMan, below). For instance, to search 
for "perl" as a word and not part of another word (as in "properly"), 
glimpse for \fI-w perl \fR. Glimpse supports an \fIAND \fR operation 
denoted by the symbol \fI`;' \fR and an \fIOR \fR operation denoted 
by the symbol \fI`,' \fR. Refer to the glimpse  manual page for 
more information. The regular expression used by \fIglimpse \fR
automatically sets the intrapage search expression. (Glimpse 
searches are done case insensitively, whereas intrapage searches 
can be done with case sensitively also, and so you may wish to 
turn off the \fIRegexp Search Case Sensitive \fR option under \fI
Occasionals \fR so it matches \fIglimpse \fR's setting.) A complete 
set of matches from the last full text search is available under 
the \fIVolumes \fR menu. 
.PP
The \fIPaths \fR pulldown gives you complete control over which 
directory hierarchies of your MANPATH \fR are searched for man 
pages and apropos information. You can call up a listing of all 
man pages in a volume through the \fIVolumes \fR pulldown menu 
and then select one to view by double-clicking on its name. New `pseudo-volumes' 
can be added, and arbitrary directories may be added to or deleted 
from a volume listing using tkmandesc commands, described below. 
In a volume listing, typing a letter jumps to the line in the 
listing starting with that letter (capital and lower case letters 
are distinct). Return to the last volume seen with \fIC-d \fR
when the focus is in the main text display area. 
.PP
Whenever you have a man page name in the text display box, whether 
from apropos, a volume listing or a reference within another 
man page, you can double-click on it to hypertext-jump to it. 
.PP
The last few man pages you looked at can be accessed directly 
through the \fIHistory \fR pulldown menu. \fIShortcuts \fR lists 
your personal favorites and is used just like \fIHistory \fR, 
with the additional options of adding the current man page (by 
clicking \fI+ \fR) or removing it ( \fI- \fR) from the list. 
.PP
(Man pages specified as above are processed through an \fInroff \fR
filter. TkMan can also read raw text from a file or from a command 
pipeline, which can then be read, searched and highlighted same 
as a man page. To read from a file, make the first character 
in the name a \fI< \fR, as in \fI<~/foo.txt \fR. To open a pipe, 
make the first character a \fI| \fR (vertical bar), as in ` \fI|gzcat 
foo.txt.gz \fR' or ` \fI|cat ../foo.txt | grep bar \fR' (that's 
no space after the first \fI| \fR, a space before and after any 
subsequent ones). After reading a file in this way, the current 
directory is set to its directory. Commands are not processed 
by a shell, but the metacharacters \fI. \fR, \fI.. \fR, \fI~ \fR
and \fI$ \fR (for environment variables), are expanded nonetheless. 
Typing is eased further by file name completion, bound to \fI
Escape \fR. Lone files (i.e., not part of a pipe) are automatically 
uncompressed--no need to read compressed files through a \fIzcat \fR
pipe. It is not expected that reading raw text will be done much; 
it is included so the occasional non-man page documentation may 
be read from the same environment. For more sophisticated file 
browsing, use NBT, my Tcl/Tk-based file browser, which is available 
from TkMan's home FTP site, given above.) 
.SS "Working within a man page "
The full pathname of the current manual page is shown at the 
top of the screen. Via the Preferences dialog, this can be changed 
to the whatis  information for the page. 
.PP
To the extent it follows convention, a manual page is parsed 
to yield its section and subsection titles (which are directly 
available from the \fISections \fR pulldown) and references to 
other man pages from its SEE ALSO \fR section ( \fILinks \fR 
pulldown). One may jump directly to a section within a man page 
or a man page referenced in the SEE ALSO \fR section, respectively, 
by selecting the corresponding entry from one of these pulldowns. 
It may be handy to tear off the \fISections \fR and \fILinks \fR
menus (by dragging the menu title with mouse button 2 pressed; 
restore them as pulldowns by clicking with button 1 on the menu 
title). 
.PP
Within a man page or raw text file or pipe, you may add ad hoc 
highlighting, as though with a yellow marker (underlining on 
monochrome monitors). Highlighted regions may then be scrolled 
to directly through the \fIHighlights \fR pulldown menu. To highlight 
a region, select the desired text by clicking button 1, dragging 
to the far extent of the desired region and releasing the button, 
then click on the \fI+ \fR next to \fIHighlights \fR. To remove 
any highlights or portions thereof in a region, select it as 
before but then click on \fI- \fR. Highlighting information is 
persistent across executions of TkMan. A complete set of pages 
with highlighting is available under the \fIVolumes \fR menu. 
.PP
You can move about the man page by using the scrollbar or typing 
a number of key combinations familiar to Emacs aficionados. Space 
and \fIC-v \fR page down, and delete and \fIM-v \fR page up. \fI
C-n \fR and \fIC-p \fR scroll up and down, respectively, by a 
single line ( \fIvi \fR fans will be happy to hear that \fIC-f \fR
and \fIC-b \fR also page down and page up, respectively). \fI
M-< \fR goes to the head and \fIM-> \fR to the tail of the text. 
One may "scan" the page, which is to say scroll it up and down 
with the mouse but without the use of the scrollbar, by dragging 
on the text display with the middle mouse button pressed. Like 
Emacs, \fIC-space \fR will mark one's current location, which 
can be returned to later with \fIC-x \fR, which exchanges the 
then-current position with the saved mark; a second \fIC-x \fR
swaps back. 
.PP
\fIC-s \fR initiates a search. Subsequently typing a few letters 
attempts to find a line with that string, starting its search 
with at the current match, if any, or otherwise the topmost visible 
line. A second \fIC-s \fR finds the next match of the string 
typed so far. (If the current search string is empty, a second \fI
C-s \fR retrieves the previous search pattern.) \fIC-r \fR is 
similar to \fIC-s \fR but searches backwards. This incremental 
search can be used to quickly locate a particular command-line 
option or a particular command in a group (as in \fIcsh \fR with 
its long list of internal commands). At the bottom of the screen, 
type in a regular expression to search for and hit return or 
click \fISearch \fR to begin a search. Hit \fINext \fR or keep 
hitting return to search for the next occurance. [ \fIPrev \fR
will be added when Tk supports a \fItag prevrange \fR command.] \fI
Escape \fR or \fIC-g \fR cancels searching, both incremental 
and regular expression types. 
.PP
The \fITab \fR key moves the focus from the man page type-in 
line to the text view of the man page to the search line and 
back around. \fIShift-Tab \fR jumps about in the opposite direction. 
.SS "Other commands "
The \fIOccasionals \fR menu holds commands and options which 
you probably won't use much. The first group in this menu is 
comprised of commands which you may invoke several times in a 
single TkMan session. \fIHelp \fR returns to this information 
screen. Although virtually made obsolete by TkMan, \fIPrint \fR
makes a copy of the current man page on dead trees, helping to 
starve the planet of life-giving oxygen. (If the \fI[tn]roff \fR
source is not available, TkMan asks if it should try to reverse 
compile the man page. If successful, this produces much more 
appealing output than an ASCII \fR dump.) By default, incremental 
searching is not case sensitive, but regular expression searching 
is; these settings can be toggled with the next two menu checkboxes. 
With proportional fonts giving a ragged right margin, any change 
bars in the right margin will form an uneven line; by opting 
for \fIChangebars on left \fR, they will form a straight line 
at the left margin. 
.PP
As with \fIxman \fR one may instantiate multiple viewers. When 
there is more than one viewer you may choose man pages in one 
viewer and have their contents shown in another. Use the \fIOutput \fR
pulldown (which appears and disappears as relevant) to direct 
one viewer's output destination to another. With this feature 
one may easily compare two similar man pages for differences, 
keep one man page always visible, or examine several man pages 
from a particular volume listing or a SEE ALSO \fR section. \fI
Output \fR only affects the display destination of man pages. 
TkMan uses a database of all manual page names in searching for 
a match for a particular name. This database is constructed automatically 
if it doesn't exist (this includes the first time TkMan is run 
for a particular user) and whenever it is out of date due to 
pages being added or changed, or changes in one's MANPATH \fR
or tkmandesc commands. (If you want to add paths to your MANPATH \fR, 
or edit \fI~/.tkman \fR, you will have to restart to see any 
changes take effect, however.) If you install new manual pages, 
invoking \fIRebuild Database \fR will permit them to show up 
in the next search or volume listing without the bother of quitting 
and re-executing TkMan. \fIRebuild Glimpse Database \fR creates 
and then maintains the index that is used for full text searches. 
The Glimpse database is not maintained automatically. When exited 
via the \fIQuit \fR button TkMan saves its state. One may guard 
against losing highlighting, shortcuts and other what-should-be 
persistent information without quitting by by invoking \fICheckpoint 
state to .tkman \fR. \fIQuit, don't update \fR performs the opposite 
operation. 
.PP
At the bottom right corner of the screen, \fIMono \fR toggles 
between the proportionally-spaced font and a monospaced one, 
for use in those man pages that rely on a fixed-width font to 
align columns. \fIQuit \fR exits TkMan, of course, after saving 
some state information (see below). To exit without saving status 
information, select the \fIQuit \fR option from the \fIOccasionals \fR
pulldown. 
.SS "Preferences "
The \fIPreferences... \fR choice in the \fIOccasionals \fR pulldown 
menu brings up a graphical user interface to setting various 
attributes of TkMan, including fonts, colors, and icons. Click 
on a checkbutton at the top of the window to bring up the corresponding 
group of choices. After making a set of choices, the \fIApply \fR
button manipulates the running application to show these changes, \fI
OK \fR sets the changes for use now and in the future, \fICancel \fR
quits the dialog and sets all choices to their settings as of 
the time Preferences was called up, and \fIDefaults \fR sets 
all choices (not just those of the current group) to those set 
by TkMan out of the box. 
.PP
The first line in the Fonts group specifies the font to use for 
the general user interface, which amounts to the labels on buttons 
and the text in menus. The first menu in the line labeled \fI
Interface \fR sets the font family, the next menu sets the font 
size, and the last the font styling (normal, bold, italics, bold-italics). \fI
Text display \fR makes these settings for the text box in which 
the manual pages contents are displayed. \fIScreen DPI \fR specifies 
the right set of fonts to use for your monitor. 
.PP
Colors sets the foreground and background colors to use for the 
manual page text display box, the general user interface, and 
the buttons of the user interface. In addition it sets the color (or 
font) in which to show various classes of text in the text box, 
including manual page references, incremental search hits, regular 
expression search hits, and highlighted regions. 
.PP
The See group specifies what and how much information to show. 
Usually manual page headers and footers are uninteresting and 
therefore are stripped out, but a canonical header and footer (along 
the date the page was installed in the \fIman/man \fR\fIn \fR
directory or formatted to the \fIman/cat \fR\fIn \fR directory) 
to be shown at the bottom of every page can be requested. TkMan 
can extract section headers from all manual pages, but only some 
manual page macros format \fIsub \fRsection headers in a way 
that can be distinguished from ordinary text; if your macros 
do, turn this option on to add subsections to the Sections menu. 
Proportional spacing wrecks the spacing used to set tables in 
columns, hence the \fIMono \fR(space) button on the bottom line 
of the main screen. Setting the \fIAggressive table parsing \fR
option on will try to identify tables and format them in a fixed-width 
font while keeping the rest of the text proportionally spaced. 
It is quite difficult to identify tables with the single-pass 
filter that TkMan uses, however, so you'll probably want to leave 
it off. The information bar at the top of the window can display 
either the short, one-line description from a manual page's NAME 
section or the pathname of the page. The \fIHistory \fR pulldown 
must balance depth of the list against ease of finding an entry; 
set your own inflection point with this menu. The \fIVolumes \fR
listing's \fI(recent) \fR choice will show all manual pages that 
have been added or changed \fIn \fR days, where \fIn \fR is set 
with this next menu. Glimpse works best when searching for relatively 
uncommon words; guard against getting too many hits on common 
words with the last menu in this group. 
.PP
The Icon group sets all the options relating to iconification. 
The pathnames of the icon bitmap and icon mask should be the 
full pathnames (beginning with a `/'). 
.PP
If a man page has not been formatted by \fInroff \fR, TkMan must 
first pipe the source text through \fInroff \fR. By turing on \fI
Cache formatted (nroff'ed) pages \fR in the Misc(ellaneous) group, 
the \fInroff \fR-formatted text is saved to disk (if possible), 
thereby eliminating this time-consuming step the next time the 
man page is read. The \fIon & compress \fR setting will compress 
the page, which saves on disk space (often substantially as much 
of a formatted page is whitespace), but will make it unavailable 
to other manual pagers that don't handle compression. When a 
highlighted passage is jumped to via the \fIHighlights \fR menu, 
some number of lines of back context are included; the exact 
number of lines is configurable. Tk deviates from Motif behavior 
slightly, as for instance in highlighting buttons when they're 
under the cursor, but you can observe strict Motif behavior. 
.SH "CUSTOMIZING TKMAN "
There are four levels of configuration to TkMan. 
.PP
(1) Transparent. Simply use TkMan and it will remember your window 
size and placement, short cuts, and highlights (if you quit out 
of TkMan via the \fIQuit \fR button). 
.PP
(2) Preferences editor (see Preferences above). 
.PP
(3) Configuration file. Most interesting settings, like the command(s) 
used to print the man page and some key bindings, can be changed 
by editing one's own \fI~/.tkman \fR. Thus, a single copy of 
TkMan (i.e., the executable \fItkman \fR) can be shared, but 
each user can have his own customized setup. (The file \fI~/.tkman \fR
is created/rewritten every time one quits TkMan via the \fIQuit \fR
button in the lower right corner. Therefore, to get a \fI~/.tkman \fR
to edit, first run and quit TkMan. Do not create one from scratch 
as it will not have the proper format used for saving other persistent 
information, and your work will be overwritten, which is to say 
lost.) Be careful not to edit a ~/.tkman file only to have it 
overwritten when a currently-running TkMan quits. 
.PP
Options that match the defaults are commented out (i.e., preceded 
by a \fI# \fR). This is so that any changes in the defaults will 
propagate nicely, while the file still lists all interesting 
variables. To override the default settings for these options, 
first comment in the line. 
.PP
The ~/.tkman save file is the place to add or delete colors to 
the default set, which will subsequently become menu choices 
in Preferences, by \fBediting in place \fR the variable \fIman(colors) \fR. 
One may also edit the order of Shortcuts in the \fIman(shortcuts) \fR
variable. Other interesting variables include \fIman(highlight) \fR, 
which can be edited to change the background in place of the 
foreground, or both the foreground \fIand \fR background, or 
a color \fIand \fR the font as with the following setting: 
\.br
\fIset man(highlight) {bold-italics -background #ffd8ffffb332} \fR
.PP
Arbitrary Tcl commands, including tkmandesc commands (described 
below), can be appended to \fI~/.tkman \fR (after the \fI### 
your additions go below \fR line). For instance, to force the 
color model to be monochrome even though you have a color screen, 
add this line: 
\.br
\fItk colormodel . monochrome \fR
.PP
To set absolutely the volume names for which all directories 
should be searched, \fBedit \fR the parallel arrays on these \fB
existing \fR lines: 
\.br
\fIset man(manList) ... \fR
\.br
\fIset man(manTitleList) ... \fR
\.br
Changing the order volumes in these lists (make sure to keep 
the two lists in parallel correspondence) changes the precedence 
of matches when two or more pages have the same name: the page 
found in the earlier volume in this list is show first. 
.PP
Additional useful commands include wm(n) , which deals with the 
window manager; bind(n) , which changes keyboard and mouse bindings 
not related to the text display window; and text(n)  which describes 
the text widget. 
.PP
(4) Source code. Of course, but if you make generally useful 
changes or have suggestions for some, please report them back 
to me so I may share the wealth with the next release. 
.SS "Command line options "
The environment variable named TKMAN \fR, if it exists, is used 
to set command line options. Any options specified explicitly (as 
from a shell or in a script) override the settings in TKMAN \fR. 
Any settings made with command-line options apply for the current 
execution only. Many of these options can be set persistently 
via the Preferences dialog (under the \fIOccasionals \fR menu). 
.TP 15
\fI-title \fR\fItitle \fR
Place \fI\fR\fItitle \fR in the window's title bar. 
.TP 15
\fI-geometry \fR\fIgeometry \fR
Specify the geometry for this invocation only. To assign a persistent 
geometry, start up TkMan, size and place the window as desired, 
then (this is important) quit via the \fIQuit \fR button in the 
lower right corner. 
.TP 15
\fI-iconify \fR and \fI--iconify \fR
Start up iconified or uniconified (the default), respectively. 
.TP 15
\fI-iconname \fR\fIname \fR
Use \fI\fR\fIname \fR in place of the uniconified window's title 
for the icon name. 
.TP 15
\fI-iconbitmap \fR\fIbitmap-path \fR and \fI-iconmask \fR\fIbitmap-path \fR
Specify the icon bitmap and its mask. 
.TP 15
\fI-iconposition (+|-)x(+|-)y \fR
Place the icon at the given position; \fI-iconposition "" "" \fR
cancels any such hints to the window manager. 
.TP 15
\fI-startup \fR\fIfilename \fR
Use \fI\fR\fIfilename \fR in place of \fI~/.tkman \fR as the 
startup file; "" indictates no startup file. 
.TP 15
\fI-database \fR\fIfilename \fR
Use \fI\fR\fIfilename \fR in place of \fI~/.tkmandatabase \fR
as the name of the file in which to create the database of man 
page names. This can point to a shared file to save disk space 
or share a custom design, or to an OS-specific file for systems 
with multiple machine architectures that share home directories. 
.TP 15
\fI-rebuildandquit \fR
Simply rebuild the database and quit. This option may be useful 
in a cron script. 
.TP 15
\fI-quit save \fR and \fI-quit nosave \fR
Specify that the startup file (usually \fI~/.tkman \fR) should 
be updated ( \fIsave \fR) or not ( \fInosave \fR) when quitting 
by the \fIQuit \fR button. 
.TP 15
\fI-v \fR
Show the current version of TkMan and exit immediately thereafter. 
.TP 15
\fI-M \fR\fIpath-list \fR
\.br
or \fI-M+ \fR\fIpath-list \fR
\.br
or \fI-+M \fR\fIpath-list \fR
As with \fIman \fR, change the search path for manual pages to 
the given colon-separated list of directory subtrees. \fI-M+ \fR
appends and \fI-+M \fR prepends these directories to the current 
list. 
.TP 15
\fI-now \fR
Start up TkMan without checking to see if the database is out 
of date. 
.SS "Key bindings "
Key bindings related to the text display box are kept in the \fI
sb \fR array in \fI~/.tkman \fR (for more information on Tcl's 
arrays, refer to the array(n)  man page. In editing the \fIsb(key,...) \fR
keyboard bindings, modifiers MUST be listed in the following 
order: \fIM \fR (for meta), \fIC \fR (control), \fIA \fR (alt). 
DO NOT USE SHIFT. It is not a general modifier: Some keyboards 
require shift for different characters, resulting in incompatibilities 
in bindings. For this reason, the status of the shift key is 
supressed in matching for bindings. For instance, \fIset sb(key,M-less) 
pagestart \fR is a valid binding on keyboards worldwide, whereas \fI
set sb(key,MS-less) \fR is not. To make a binding without a modifier 
key, precede the character by `-', as in \fIset sb(key,-space) 
pagedown \fR. 
.SS "tkmandesc "
Like \fIxman \fR, TkMan gives you directory-by-directory control 
over named volume contents. Unlike and superior to \fIxman \fR, 
however, each individual user controls directory-to-volume placement, 
rather than facing a single specification for each directory 
tree that must be observed by all. 
.PP
By default a matrix is created by taking the product of directories 
in the MANPATH \fR crossed with volume names, with the yield 
of each volume containing all the corresponding subdirectories 
in the MANPATH \fR. By adding Tcl commands to your \fI~/.tkman \fR(see 
above), you may add new volume names and add, move, copy and 
delete directories to/from/among directories. 
.PP
The interface to this functionality takes the form of Tcl commands, 
so you may need to learn Tcl--particularly the commands that 
deal with Tcl lists (including lappend(n) , linsert(n) , lrange(n) , 
lreplace(n) ) and string matching ( string(n) , \fImatch \fR 
subcommand)--to use this facility to its fullest. tkmandesc commands 
are used to handle the nonstandard format of SGI's manual page 
directories, and the \fIsgi_bindings.tcl \fR in the \fIcontrib \fR
directory is a good source of examples in the use of tkmandesc 
commands. 
.PP
Directory titles and abbrevations are kept in lists. Abbreviations 
MUST be unique (capital letters are distinct from lower case), 
but need not correspond to actual directories. In fact, volume 
letters specified here supercede the defaults in identifying 
a volume in man page searches. COMMANDS 
.PP
The following commands are \fBappended \fR to the file \fI~/.tkman \fR(see 
Customizing TkMan, above). 
.PP
To recreate a cross product of current section lists: 
\.br
\fImanDescDefaults \fR
\.br
This cross product is made implicitly before other tkmandesc 
commands. Almost always this is what one expects. If it is not, 
one may supress the cross product by setting the variable \fI
manx(defaults) \fR to a non-null, non-zero value before other 
tkmandesc commands are invoked. 
.PP
To add "pseudo" sections to the current volume name list, at 
various positions including at end of the list, in alphabetical 
order, or before or after a specific volume: 
\.br
\fImanDescAddSects \fR\fIlist of (letter, title pairs) \fR
\.br
or \fImanDescAddSects \fR\fIlist of (letter, title) pairs \fR
sort 
\.br
or \fImanDescAddSects \fR\fIlist of (letter, title) pairs \fR
before \fIsect-letter \fR
\.br
or \fImanDescAddSects \fR\fIlist of (letter, title) pairs \fR
after \fIsect-letter \fR
\.br
In manual page searches that produce multiple matches, the page 
found in the earlier volume is the one shown by default. 
.PP
To move/copy/delete/add directories: 
\.br
\fImanDescMove \fR\fIfrom-list \fR\fIto-list \fR\fIdir-patterns-list \fR
\.br
\fImanDescCopy \fR\fIfrom-list \fR\fIto-list \fR\fIdir-patterns-list \fR
\.br
\fImanDescDelete \fR\fIfrom-list \fR\fIdir-patterns-list \fR
\.br
\fImanDescAdd \fR\fIto-list \fR\fIdir-list \fR
.PP
The \fIdir-patterns-list \fR uses the same meta characters as 
man page searching (see above). It is matched against MANPATH \fR
directories with volume subdirectory appended, as in \fI/usr/man/man3 \fR, 
where \fI/usr/man \fR is a component of the MANPATH \fR and \fI
man3 \fR is a volume subdirectory. \fIfrom-list \fR and \fIto-list \fR
are Tcl lists of the unique volume abbreviations (like \fI1 \fR
or \fI3X \fR); \fI* \fR is an abbreviation for all volumes. 
.PP
Adding directories with \fImanDescAdd \fR also makes them available 
to Glimpse for its indexing. 
.PP
Warning: Moving directories from their natural home slightly 
impairs searching speed when following a reference within a man 
page. For instance, say you've moved man pages for X Windows 
subroutines from their natural home in volume 3 to their own 
volume called `X'. Following a reference in \fIXButtonEvent \fR
to \fIXAnyEvent(3X11) \fR first searches volume 3; not finding 
it, TkMan searches all volumes and finally finds it in volume 
X. With no hint to look in volume 3 (as given by the \fI3X11 \fR
suffix), the full volume search would have begun straight away. (Had 
you double-clicked in the volume listing for volume X or specified 
the man page as \fIXButtonEvent.X \fR, volume X would have been 
searched first, successfully.) 
.PP
To help debug tkmandesc scripts, invoke \fImanDescShow \fR to 
dump to stdout the current correspondence of directories to volumes 
names. EXAMPLES 
.PP
(1) To collect together all man pages in default volumes 2 and 3 
in all directories into a volume called "Programmer Subroutines", 
add these lines to the tail of \fI~/.tkman \fR: 
\.br
\fImanDescAddSects {{p "Programmer Subroutines"}} \fR
\.br
\fImanDescMove {2 3} p * \fR
.PP
To place the new section at the same position in the volume pulldown 
list as volumes 2 and 3: 
\.br
\fImanDescAddSects {{p "Programmer Subroutines"}} after 2 \fR
\.br
\fImanDescMove {2 3} p * \fR
.PP
To move only a selected set of directories: 
\.br
\fImanDescAddSects {{p "Programmer Subroutines"}} \fR
\.br
\fImanDescMove * p {/usr/man/man2 /usr/local/man/man3} \fR
.PP
(2) To have a separate volume with all of your and a friend's 
personal man pages, keeping a duplicate in their default locations: 
\.br
\fImanDescAddSects {{t "Man Pages du Tom"} {b "Betty Page(s)"}} \fR
\.br
\fImanDescCopy *phelps* t * \fR
\.br
\fImanDescCopy *page* t * \fR
.PP
(3) To collect the X windows man pages into two sections of their 
own, one for programmer subroutines and another for the others: 
\.br
\fImanDescAddSects {{x "X Windows"}} after 1 \fR
\.br
\fImanDescAddSects {{X "X Subroutines"}} after 3 \fR
\.br
\fImanDescMove * x *X11* \fR
\.br
\fImanDescMove x X *3 \fR
.PP
(4) If you never use the programmer subroutines, why not save 
time and memory by not reading them into the database? 
\.br
\fImanDescDelete * {*[2348]} \fR (braces prevent Tcl from trying 
to execute [2348] as a command) 
.PP
Alternatively but not equivalently: 
\.br
\fImanDescDelete {2 3 4 8} * \fRtkmandesc vs. xman and SGI 
.PP
TkMan's tkmandesc capability is patterned after \fIxman \fR's 
mandesc files. By placing a mandesc file at the root of a man 
page directory tree, one may create pseudo volumes and move and 
copy subdirectories into them. Silicon Graphics has modified \fI
xman \fR so that simply by creating a subdirectory in a regular 
man subdirectory one creates a new volume. This is evil. It violates 
the individual user's rights to arrange the directory-volume 
mapping as he pleases, as the mandesc file or subdirectory that 
spontaneously creates a volume is set a single place and must 
be observed by all who read that directory. By contrast, TkMan 
places the directory-to-volume mapping control in an individual's 
own \fI~/.tkman \fR file. This gives the individual complete 
control and inflicts no pogrom on others who share man page directories. 
Therefore, mandesc files are not supported in any way by TkMan. 
.PP
One may still share custom setups, however, by sharing the relevant 
lines of \fI~/.tkman \fR. In fact, a tkmandesc version of the 
standard SGI man page directory setup is included in the \fIcontrib \fR
directory of the TkMan distribution. For assistance with SGI-specific 
directory manipulation, contact Paul Raines ( \fIraines@bohr.physics.upenn.edu \fR). 
.SH "ADDRESSES "
Tom Phelps 
\.br
University of California, Berkeley 
\.br
Computer Science Division 
\.br
387 Soda Hall 
\.br
Berkeley, CA 94720 
\.br
USA 
.PP
\fIphelps@cs.Berkeley.EDU \fR
.SH "MORE INFORMATION "
My article "TkMan: A Man Born Again" appears in \fIThe X Resource \fR, 
issue 10, pages 33--46. Here are the section titles: Introduction, 
Availability, The User Interface, Navigating among Man Pages, 
Inspecting Individual Man Pages, Customization, Logical Volumes 
with tkmandesc, Persistency, The RosettaMan Filter, Extensions, 
Problems, Future Work, Acknowledgements, Bibliography. 
.PP
A World Wide Web page that lists other Tcl/Tk software and a 
related Berkeley Computer Science Division technical report, 
CSD-94-802, can be found at \fIhttp://http.cs.berkeley.edu/~phelps/ \fR. 
.SH "DISCLAIMER "
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software 
and its documentation for educational, research and non-profit 
purposes, without fee, and without a written agreement is hereby 
granted, provided that the above copyright notice and the following 
three paragraphs appear in all copies. 
.PP
Permission to incorporate this software into commercial products 
may be obtained from the Office of Technology Licensing, 2150 
Shattuck Avenue, Suite 510, Berkeley, CA 94704. 
.PP
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY 
PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, 
EVEN IF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE 
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \fR
.PP
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, 
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY 
AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER 
IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS 
NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, 
OR MODIFICATIONS. \fR
.PP
Without permission from the Office of Technology Licensing, commerical 
organizations are free to use TkMan for internal use and internal 
use only. 
.PP
Help page last revised on $Date$ 