.TH ATOS 1NEMO "8 June 2005"
.SH NAME
atos, atos_sp atosph, atosph_sp \-
convert ascii N-body file to structured binary format
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBatos in=\fPascii_file \fBout=\fPsnap_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIatos\fP converts an ascii file containing one or more N-body frames
into structured binary format.  Most commonly, \fIatos\fP is used to
convert output files produced on remote supercomputers.  \fIatos_sp\fP
is similar, but uses single precision.  Finally, \fIatosph\fP and
\fIatosph_sp\fP convert ascii Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics data
files to binary format.
.PP
The NEMO convention is to store the SPH particles first in arrays where
SPH and pure N-body particles are stored.
.PP 
For a more general ASCII conversion program, see \fItabtos(1NEMO)\fP
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 25
\fBin=\fIascii_file\fP
Input data is read from \fIascii_file\fP, which must be in the format
described below.  Default: none.
.TP
\fBout=\fIsnap_file\fP
Converted output data is appended to \fIsnap_file\fP in
\fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format. If \fIsnap_file\fP does not exist,
it is created.  Default: none.
.TP
\fBoptions=\fIoption_list\fP
Specifies data expected in input file; one or more of \fBmass\fP,
\fBpos\fP, \fBvel\fP, \fBphase\fP, \fBphi\fP, and \fBacc\fP.  Also,
\fIatosph\fP recognizes \fBrho\fP, \fBtemp\fP, and \fBhsph\fP.  Note
that if \fBpos\fP or \fBvel\fP is specified, \fBphase\fP may not be,
and vise versa.  Default: \fBmass,phase\fP (for \fIatos\fP),
\fBmass,phase,rho,temp,hsph,phi\fP (for \fIatosph\fP).
.TP
\fBhexpack=\fIflag\fP
If \fBtrue\fP, read particle data in packed hexadecimal format as
output by \fItreecode\fP(1NEMO).  Default: \fBfalse\fP.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fIstring\fP
Random verbiage written before first snapshot. Only if a headline is
given will a headline and history be written to the output file.
Default: none.
.SH "INPUT FILE FORMATS"
The standard ascii N-body file format is as follows:
.sp 1
.nf
.ta +1.5i
NOBJ                    	number of bodies [integer]
NDIM                    	number of dimensions [integer]
TIME                    	time of snapshot [real]
MASS(i)                 	particle masses, i = 1...NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .
X(i) Y(i) Z(i)          	particle positions, i = 1...NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .
VX(i) VY(i) VZ(i)       	particle velocities, i = 1...NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .
PSI(i)                  	particle potentials, i = 1...NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .
AX(i) AY(i) AZ(i)       	particle accelerations, i = 1..NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .
.fi
.sp 1
The SPH file format is as follows:
.sp 1
.nf
.ta +1.5i
NOBJ NGAS               	number of bodies, gas particles [integer]
NDIM                    	number of dimensions [integer]
TIME                    	time of snapshot [real]
MASS(i)                 	particle masses, i = 1...NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .                        (the first NGAS particles are the SPH particles)
X(i) Y(i) Z(i)          	particle positions, i = 1...NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .
VX(i) VY(i) VZ(i)       	particle velocities, i = 1...NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .
RHO(i)                  	gas densities, i = 1...NGAS [real]
  . . . . .
TEMP(i)                 	gas temperatures, i = 1...NGAS [real]
  . . . . .
HSPH(i)                 	gas smoothings, i = 1...NGAS [real]
  . . . . .
PSI(i)                  	particle potentials, i = 1...NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .
AX(i) AY(i) AZ(i)       	particle accelerations, i = 1..NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .
.fi
.sp 1
Subsets of these full data files may be read by setting the right
combination of \fBoptions\fP.  However, all data arrays present in the
input must be specified, and the ordering is fixed as shown here.
These formats may be repeated until end-of-file.
.PP
For upward compatibility the header elements (NOBJ [NGAS] NDIM and TIME) can 
now appear in the order, 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
stoa(1NEMO), rsf(1NEMO), tsf(1NEMO), tabtos(1NEMO), filestruct(3NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO).
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes, Peter Teuben
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +3.5i
23-Mar-87	V 1.0: created    	PJT
11-May-88	V 2.0: created    	JEB
01-July-88	V 2.1: hexpack flag	JEB
27-Sep-88	V 2.2: options phi, acc	PJT
01-Dec-88	V 2.3: SPH options	JEB
28-Mar-89	V 2.4: error checking	JEB
17-sep-90	V 2.6: header logic improved	PJT
15-may-97	V3.0: added binary= keywords	PJT
.fi
