.TH BSF 1NEMO "10 December 2019"
.SH NAME
bsf \- benchmark stats on all floating point values in a (binary) structured file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbsf\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbsf\fP computes some numbers for all the floating point values in a structured
file, which can then be used against previously obtained number in an effort
to assert proper regression.
.PP
The output will \fImean, rms, min, max\fP and \fInumber of points\fP.
.PP
This program can be used by users who want to provide some regression in their NEMO scripts.
See EXAMPLES below.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input file name [???]
.TP
\fBtest=\fP\fItest-string\fP
If given, this is the resulting string that should have been obtained. Default: none
.TP
\fBfmt=\fP\fIC-fmt\P
C-Format string for the 4 floating point values output.  [%g]
.TP
\fBeps=\fP
In some next version this accuracy parameter
can control if the regression numbers need to agree within some fraction.
Default: not used and not implemented.
.TP
\fBlabel=\fP\fIlabel-string\fP
By default the input file name is reported, but with label= you can override this.
Particularly useful when unix pipes are used.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here are some examples of the stats of the masses and phase space coordinates of
a plummer sphere with 10 particles and seed=123. The last example is to show that
the output of %g (the default) and %f do differ.
.nf
    mkplummer - 10 seed=123 | bsf -
    0.0140845 0.896875 -4.6523 4.80925 71
    
    mkplummer - 10 seed=123 | csf - - convert=d2f | bsf -
    0.0140845 0.896875 -4.6523 4.80925 71

    mkplummer - 10 seed=123 | csf - - convert=d2f | bsf - %f "0.0140845 0.896875 -4.6523 4.80925 71"
    0.014085 0.896875 -4.652300 4.809249 71 FAIL
    0.0140845 0.896875 -4.6523 4.80925 71 expected

.fi
When you run these with seed=0, you will see the first and last number do not change,
because mkplummer by default value centers the snapshot (\fBzerocm=t\fP).!q
.SH SEE ALSO
tsf(1NEMO), filestruct(3NEMO)
.SH FILES
NEMO/src/kernel/io
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
24-Nov-2019	V0.1 Created	PJT
10-dec-2019	V1.0 finalized with label=	PJT
.fi
