.TH CCDCROSS 1NEMO "5 June 2025"

.SH "NAME"
ccdcross \- cross correlate images with a reference image

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBccdcross\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBccdcross\fP finds the optimal offset one (or more) images and a reference image based on the
cross-correlation between two images.  By selecting a specific \fBcenter=\fP and
half \fBbox=\fP size, one can focus on a specific area, assuming the offset is less than
the box-size.
.PP
The centroid is determined using an intensity weighted mean in the correllated image.
A future version may fit
a 2D gaussian or appropriate function to the correllation image.
.PP
Some caution is warrented as the results can depend on the size of the box and number of pixels to look around
the correllation peak.


.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIref,im1,...\fP
Input image files, first image is the reference image. At least two images need
to be given.
.br
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIim\fP
Output cross image.
.br
No default.
.TP
\fBcenter=\fP\fIx0,y0\fP
X-Y Reference center around which a box (see \fBbox=\fP below) is taken.
The are 0-based integer pixels. By default the center of the image
is used.
.br
Default: center of first input image.
.TP
\fBbox=\fP\fIb2\fP
Half size of correlation box. The output image is forced to have an odd pixel size, 2*box+1.
The shift between the images should not exceed \fBbox\fP, or it will not find the center.
.br
By default half the mapsize is used.
.TP
\fBn=\fP
Half size of box insize correllation box to find the center
.TP
\fBclop=\fP\fIc\fP
Only use values above this clip level in the final correlation image. Since the peak
value will depend on 
.br
By default values are not clipped.

.TP
\fBbad=\fP\fIb\fP
bad value to ignore.
.br
By default there is no bad value recognized.

.SH "CAVEAT"
Only 2D images are handled.
.PP
The WCS of the output image is copied from the reference image.
.PP
Images should ideally be the same size, but nothing will stop the program from
running off without that. The user is then responsible for computing the true offsets
as all bets are off.
.PP
A wrong choice of box= and n= can cause a bias in the center. Using clop= can help
making it more robust.

.SH "EXAMPLES"

Here two gaussian shaped sources with noise are created with a small 1 pixel offset from
each other.

.EX

    ccdgen - gauss 1,2 size=128,128 center=64,64 | ccdgen g64 noise spar=0,0.05 seed=64 in=-
    ccdgen - gauss 1,2 size=128,128 center=65,65 | ccdgen g65 noise spar=0,0.05 seed=65 in=-
    ccdcross g64,g65 shift.ccd box=16
    ...
    ### nemo Debug[0]: Using 2 images
    ### nemo Debug[0]: Image 0: pixel size 1 1   minmax -0.22856 0.971157 [g64]
    ### nemo Debug[0]: center=64,64
    ### nemo Debug[0]: Full box size 33
    ### nemo Debug[0]: Image 1: pixel size 1 1   minmax -0.20781 0.927271 [g65]
    ### nemo Debug[0]: 128 128  16  0 1
    ### nemo Debug[0]: New min and max in correlation image are: -0.597157 11.907974
    ### nemo Debug[0]: Max cross 11.908 @ 17 17
    ### nemo Debug[0]: MinMax in 49 pts: 3.40988 11.908, use clop= to clip the corr out image
    ### nemo Debug[0]: X,Y mean: -0.0561799 -0.0237276
    ### nemo Debug[0]: X,Y sig:  1.81226 1.81864
    ### nemo Debug[0]: Center at: 0.94382 0.976272
    0.94382 0.976272  -0.0561799 -0.0237276  17 17  11.908

.EE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccdmath(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)

.SH "FILES"
src/image/mics	ccdcross.c

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
11-Apr-2022	V0.1 Created	PJT
3-aug-2023	V0.2 fix absolute coordinate	PJT
18-apr-2024	V0.3 add peak flux in correlation map	PJT
.fi
