.TH CCDDISPLAY 1NEMO "12 July 1988" 
.SH NAME
\fBccddisplay\fP \- displays an \fIImage(5NEMO)\fP file
onto a color Sun screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdisp in=\fP\fIimagefile\fP [parameters = values]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccddisplay\fP uses \fIImage(5)\fP files, such as those produced by nnmush, to 
produce a grey-scaled image of the file on a color graphics device. Note
that one must be able to interact with \fBccddisplay\fP: therefore it must be
run either within a graphics tool in SunView or onto the console of
a workstation from another workstation or terminal.
.PP
NOTE: The current method to display images is convert them to \fIfits(5NEMO)\fP
format, e.g. using \fIccdfits(1NEMO)\fP, and use any of the modern
FITS viewers, like ds9/saoimage.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIImage(5)\fP format [no default].
.TP
\fBcms=\fI2, 4, 8, 16 ...\fP
the size of the color map segment used: it must be an integral
power of two between 2 and, for Suns with 8 bit frame buffers,
256 (note that if you run \fBccddisplay\fP within SunView the program will only
use the 256-entry color table while the mouse is within the picture
frame).
Try 128 if you only have one image
on the screen, 128 and 64 for 2 images, and 64, 64 and 64 for three images
(as you may have noticed, the sum must be less then 256), or 256
if you are using a remote console [default 64].
.TP
\fBmaxi=\fI0.0 - 1.0\fP \fBmini=\fI0.0 - 1.0\fP
only plots intensities from the proportions
maxi to mini, scaling the color table
to give maximum variation to the subrange. These parameters
are primarily useful to bring out contrast in the dim regions of the
image [default maxi=1.0 mini=0.0].
.TP
\fBevery=\fIvalue\fP
plot every \fIvalue\fP pixel.
.SH
After drawing the image on the screen the program prompt the user
for the name of a subroutine to manipulate the color map
of the image. These subroutines will subsequently prompt the user
for any necessary parameters. The routines currently implemented are:
.TP 20
\fBnorm\fP
maps a monomial of degree N to the colormap, where N is supplied
by the user.
.TP
\fBnormmod\fP
maps a monomial of degree N to the colormap, where N is supplied
by the user, but multiplies it by the number of contours requested
and then shifts the result into the range 0 to 1: this produces 
a map with fewer contours near the beginning then the top 
.TP
\fBflow\fP
uses the same function as \fBnormmod\fP, but dynamically varies the 
number of contours from 0 to the maximum supplied by the user
for an expanding ripple effect.
.TP
\fBlinmod\fP
maps N linear contours onto the color table, N supplied by user.
.TP 20
\fBinv\fP
inverts the color map.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapsmooth(1NEMO), ccdfits(1NEMO), saoimage(1L), ds9(1L)
.SH BUGS
Relies on SunCore directly rather then yapp(3NEMO).
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Wisnovsky
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/pswisnov/ccddisplay author's original sources
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
xx-jun-87	Braught into system	PSW
12-Jul-88	small mods for new filestruct
31-mar-01	deprecated this program
.fi
