.TH CCDDIFFRACT 1NEMO "9 May 2010"
.SH NAME
ccddiffract \- smoothing/diffracting an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBccddiffract in=\fPimage \fBout=\fPimage [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIccddiffract\fP will smooth and/or add diffraction patterns
an image to make it look "pretty".
It can also add some quasi poissonian noise.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIImage(5)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, will be in \fIImage(5)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBgauss=\fIvalue\fP
Beam size (FWHM, note FWHM = 2*sqrt(2*ln(2)) = 2.355 * sigma) of a 
gaussian smoothing kernel. 
ignored [default: 0.05].
.TP
\fBfraction=\fP
Fraction of signal that is diffracted. The remainder is smoothed
using a gaussian beam.
[default: 0.1].
.TP
\fBcutoff=\fP
Signal below which no diffraction spikes are added.
.TP
\fBspike=\fP
The width of the spike. For the spike, a \fIsqr(sinc(x))\fP is 
used, where the width is the distance to the first null.
[default: \fB0.1\fP].
.TP
\fBnoise=\fP
Amount of noise.
[default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBbad=\fIbad_value\fP
Input pixel value which to skip in smoothing.
[Default: not used]
.SH CAVEATS
Should look at the code in STARLAB/src/star/rdc/make_ccd.C
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccdsmooth(1NEMO), ccdfill(1NEMO), snapccd(1NEMO), snapgrid(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
src/image/trans     	ccddiffract.c 
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
9-may-01	V0.1: Created from CCDSMOOTH	PJT
.fi
