.TH CCDDUMP 1NEMO "9 January 2012"
.SH NAME
ccddump \- dump contents of an image to other format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBccddump in=\fPimage  \fBou=\fPdump [parameter = value ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccddump\fP dumps the contents of an image file on a user selected
format. A number of formats are available, and costumization is
easy.
.PP
\fBccddump\fP was used for a local test, but may find useful applications,
and was as such kept in the distribution set.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIimage-file\fP
input file name, in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format. 
[no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIdump-file\fP
output file, will be in one of the selected dump formats (see below)
[no default]
.TP
\fBtype=\fIoutput-type-string\fP
Dump option type. 
Currently available are \fBfloat\fP, \fBdouble\fP, and \fBbyte\fP.
Such dumps are straight dumps in the local system format, with
an option to byte swap (see swap= below).
[default: \fBfloat\fP].
.TP
\fBrange=\fIlow:high\fP
Range of input map used in output map. This option is only active
when the output format is some fixed length integer type.
When \fBoption\fP is left blank, the min and max value from
the image header is used.
[default: blank]
.TP
\fBmode=\fImode-string\fP
Output mode, rows first or columns first. [default: row]
.TP
\fBswap=\fIbool\fP
Swap the bytes? [default: \fBfalse\fP].
.TP
\fBscale=\fP
Output scaling type in case fixed length integers are used. 
.TP
\fBgamma=\fP
Gamma scaling factor for \fBscale=gamma\fP
.TP
\fBb=\fP
Softening for \fBscale=asinh\fP
.TP
\fBsm=t|f\fP
Use the CH sm file_type? . You will need the directive
.nf
   file_type       CH
.fi
in your ~/.sm file. [default: \fBfalse\fP].
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccdfits(1NEMO), ccdprint(1NEMO), image(5NEMO), tsf(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/pjt/image  	ccddump.c ccddump.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
30-Jul-89	V1.0: Created	PJT
28-mar-07	V1.2 sm output option	PJT
9-jan-12	V1.3 3D option, scale= added	PJT
10-jan-12	V2.0 option= -> type=		PJT
.fi
