.TH CCDELLINT 1NEMO "23 November 2022"

.SH "NAME"
ccdellint \- integrate in elliptical rings

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBccdellint\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBccdellint\fP integrates a Position-Position-Velocity (PPV) cube in elliptical annuli
in the first two dimensions, reducing it to a Radius-Velocity (RV) image.
.PP
This program also handles 2D images, in which case the output is a table, consisting
of 6 columns:
.nf
   rad = outer radius of the annulus;
   npix = number of pixels in the annulus;
   int = average in the annulus; (no support for median yet)
   rms = rms in the annulus;
   sum = sum in the annulus;
   cumsum = cumulative sum for all annuli so far. 
.fi
This is the same order and meaning as the corresponding \fIellint(1MIRIAD)\fP program.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input data cube. No default.   
.TP
\fBradii=\fP
radii of the ring boundaries (Nring+1) [] 
.TP
\fBpa=\fP
position angle of disk, astronomical convention. [0]   
.TP
\fBinc=\fP
inclination angle of disk [45]   
.TP
\fBcenter=\fP
rotation center (mapcenter if left blank, 0,0=lower left)
.TP
\fBvsys=\fP
systemic velocity. Only needed for cube. [0]     
.TP
\fBblank=\fP
Value of the blank pixel to be ignored
.TP
\fBnorm=\fP
Normalize values to number of pixels in ring [t]
.TP
\fBout=\fP
RV image, useful for 3D cubes.
.TP
\fBtab=\fP
Output table, useful for 2D images.

.SH "CAVEATS"
As with most of these codes, the center of pixel determines to which ring the pixel belongs in it total.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Example of generating a gaussian profile from a 2D gauss image
.nf
  % ccdgen out=- object=gauss spar=1,50 size=128,128 | ccdellint - 0:100:5 out=. tab=-
  0 60 2.5 0.997956 0.997956
  1 164 7.5 0.99048 1.98844
  ...
  18 752 92.5 0.354992 13.4326
  19 464 97.5 0.300485 13.7331
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccdzshift(1NEMO), ellipse(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)

.SH "FILES"
NEMO/src/image/misc/ccdellint.c

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
30-nov-2020	V0.1 drafted	PJT
23-nov-2022	V0.3 confirmed 2D images, added table output	PJT
.fi
