.TH CCDFILL 1NEMO "3 May 2017"
.SH NAME
ccdfill \- patch up the holes in an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBccdfill\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccdfill\fP patches up the holes in an image.
.PP
Currently a simple 2-dimensional planar fit is done to the
pixel values surrounding 'bad' pixels. The size of this area
can be choosen by the user.
.PP
This procedure will obviously not conserve flux (see also
\fBall=t\fP below), and has to be used with caution.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIin_ccd\fP
Input \fIimage(3NEMO)\fP file.
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIout_ccd\fP
Output image file.
No default.
.TP
\fBn=\fP
Number of neighbor cells at one side to use in interpolation/fit.
The total number of cells used in the fit will hence be at most
\fB4*n*(n+1)\fP
(this already excludes the central pixel, n=1 uses 8 cells, n=2 
uses 24 etc.)
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBbad=\fP\fIzvalue\fP
Value in the map that should be patched.
[Default: \fB0.0\fP].
.TP
\fBall=t|f\fP
Normally only bad pixels are patches. By setting \fBall=t\fP all pixels
are re-fitted with a planar fit, effectively smoothing the map. This
will obviously not conserve flux, where applicaple,
and should be used with caution.
Default: f
.TP
\fBm=\fP
Minimum number of neighbors needed to allow a fit. Normally 3 is enough,
though this tends to add to edges. 4 would be more conservative, in
which case iter>1 can be used.
Default: 4
.TP
\fBiter=\fP
Minimum number of iterations.  0 is also an allowed value, in which
case the image will just be copied unmodified.
Default: 1
.TP
\fBspike=\fP
If given, for each point in the map, if a point deviates more than \fBspike\fP from
all it's 4 non-bad direct neighbors, this value will be reset to \fBbad\fP before the actually
filling will take place. Default: none (not applied)
.SH CAVEATS
With m=3 you will see some singular matrix warnings, and patched values
will be bogus. It is better to set m=4 for those cases.
.PP
Edge effects will occur for large values of iter, use with caution. Really 
a better bi-linear interpolation is needed. See also 
\fIccdintpol(1NEMO)\fP if your irregulaties are regular enough.
.SH SEE ALSO
image(3NEMO), ccdmath(1NEMO), ccdsmooth(1NEMO), ccdintpol(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
10-Dec-93	V1.0 Created	PJT
22-feb-97	V1.1 added bad=	PJT
19-feb-02	V1.2 added all=, m=	PJT
3-may-03	V1.3 added iter=	PJT
3-may-2017	V2.0 added spike=	PJT
.fi
