.TH CCDFFT 1NEMO "7 July 1989" 
.SH NAME
ccdfft \- 2D fourier transform of a map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBccdfft ini=\fPimage  \fBoutr=\fPimage [parameter = value ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccdfft\fP applies a Fast Fourier Transform to the input map(s).
.PP
Input maps musthave sizes which are powers of 2.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBinr=\fIreal-in-map\fP
input file name, in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format. This file is taken
as the real part of the map to be transformed. 
[no default].
.TP
\fBini=\fPima-in-map\fP
input file name, in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format. This file is taken
as the imaginary part of the map to be transformed. If no filename
is given, the input map is assumed to be real. [default: not used].
.TP
\fBoutr=\fIreal-out-map\fP
output file, will be in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format. Will store the
real part of the transform. [no default]
.TP
\fBouti=\fIima-out-map\fP
output file, will be in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format. Will store the
imaginary part of the transform [no default].
.SH TIMING
Performance on Rigel (SUN 3/160, 16Mhz):
.nf
.ta +1i +2i +2i
100 * 100	
200 * 200	
300 * 300	
512 * 512	
.fi
.SH STORAGE REQUIREMENT
Totals to \fI24.NX.NY\fP bytesm\, which break down as follows:
Only two images will be stored im memory, taking up \fI16.NX.NY\fP bytes, for
as long as images are stored in double. The actual fourier transform
is done in float, and thiis requires a dynamically allocated scratch
array of size \fI8.NX.NY\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccdmath(1NEMO), image(5NEMO), tsf(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/pjt/image  	ccdfft.c ccdfft.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
 7-Jul-89	V1.0: Created	PJT
.fi
