.TH CCDFITS 1NEMO "12 March 2020"
.SH NAME
ccdfits \- convert an image to a fits file 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBccdfits in=\fPimage \fBout=\fPfits [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccdfits\fP writes a fits file to disk. The input must be in 
\fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format, the output will be in standard \fIfits(5NEMO)\fP
format on disk.
.PP
An experimental version of this program that uses the standard
\fIcfitsio(3)\fP library is known as \fIccdfitsio(1NEMO)\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIimage-file\fP
input file, in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format [no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIfits-file\fP
output file, will be in \fIfits(5NEMO)\fP format [no default].
.TP
\fBbitpix=\fInumber\fP
Bitpix applied for scaling. Options are 16, 32 or -32. 
[default: -32].
.TP
\fBscale=\fInumber\fP
Scaling factors for CDELT keyword. If the second or third number is
omitted, it is repeated from the previous number.
[default: \fB1,1,1\fP].
.TP
\fBiscale=\fIbscale,bzero\fP
Scaling factors for intensity (should only be used for BITPIX > 0)
[default: \fB1,0\fP].
.TP
\fBobject=\fIname\fP
Name of your object/image [default: none].
.TP
\fBcomment=\fIcomments\fP
Comment using the COMMENT keyword. [default: none]
.TP
\fBcdmatrix=t|f\fP
Use CD matrix instead of CDELT? [t/f]. Default: f.
.TP
\fBblocking=\fIfactor\fP
Blocking factor (multiplicity of blocksize in terms of 2880 bytes) used
when writing the fits file. [default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fPrefmap=\fP
Reference map or cube (a fits file) from which the WCS is inherited. 
It has to match the output cube which is created. \fIDeprecated\fP.
By default none is used. 
.TP
\fIcrpix=\fP
Use these pixels (2 or 3 need to be given, depending if a map or cube
is output) as reference pixel, instead of the one defined in the
reference map. By default not used.
.TP
\fIcrval=\fP
Use these values (2 or 3 need to be given, depending if a map or cube
is output) as value at the reference pixel, 
instead of the one defined in the reference map or defined
by the input. By default not used.
.TP
\fIcdelt=\fP
Use these values (2 or 3 need to be given, depending if a map or cube
is output) as pixel increments,
instead of the one defined in the reference map or defined
by the input. By default not used.
.TP
\fIradecvel=t|f\fP
If no reference map used, this can be used to enforce a more reasonable
axis descriptor (RA/DEC/VEL) for astronomical data packages which 
cannot handle theory data too well (e.g. miriad, karma etc.). We also
add CUNITn and BUNIT (albeit in JY/PIXEL). See also \fIccdsky(1NEMO)\fP
for a smart scaling placing the object at a computed distance.
[Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fIdummy=t|f\fP
Write dummy (NAXISn=1) axes too?  If not, axes with length 1 are
written last.
Default: t
.TP
\fInfill=0\fP
Number of dummy comment lines to add to a fits header to test I/O routines.
Default: 0
.TP
\fIndim=\fP
This is a hack. If used, this will be the value of NAXIS written to the FITS file. Only
useful of \fBdummy=f\fP and your FITS reader still cannot handle 
dummy trailing axes. For \fBndim=4\fP the axis will be labeled
as \fISTOKES\fP, which is useful for packages such as CASA.
Default: not used.
.TP
\fIselect=1\fP
Select this image (1 being the first) to grab in an file
with multiple Image's. [Default: 1]
.SH EXAMPLES
To convert an image to unsigned 16 bit integers use the following math:
.nf
        a = "(a < 0 ? a+65536 : a)" 
.fi
or using \fIccdmath\fP:
.nf
        ccdmath in=map1 out=map2 fie="iflt(%1,0,%1+65536,%1)"
.fi
.PP
A reference map (\fBrefmap=\fP) does not have to be a full FITS cube. If
the NEMO \fIfitsio(3NEMO)\fP routines are used, the header will suffice,
since the data is never needed. You can see \fIscanfits(1NEMO)\fP for this:
.nf
	scanfits in=cube.fits out=cube.fitshdr select=header
	ccdfits ... refmap=cube.fitshdr ...
.fi
.SH FITS TAPES
For historic amusement:
.PP
In the old days (somewhere before the 90s) there were actually
software systems that could only directly read FITS files from
tape, not from disk. The disk-fits file must be written to tape in 'raw'
format with a block length of 2880 bytes, which can be done with
\fIdd(1)\fP :
.PP
.nf
.ta +1i
	% \fBdd if=fits.dat of=/dev/rmt0 obs=2880\fP
.fi
.PP
Under VMS the tape has to be mounted with the blocksize:
.PP
.nf
.ta +1i
	$ \fBMOUNT MT:/FOREIGN/BLOCK=2880/RECORD=2880\fP
	$ \fBCOPY MT: FITS.DAT\fP
.fi
.PP
and the file on disk must be recorded to have a 2880 blocksize:
.PP
.nf
	$ \fBFIXATR/RFM=FIX:2880 FITS.DAT\fP
.fi
.PP
In case FTP is used to transfer files, remember that FTP cannot handle
files with this format (some FTP's at least). So it's best to have them
in regular 512 byte blocks before moving, and at 2880 blocksize
when using programs such as DISKFITS in the VMS version of GIPSY.
.PP
You could also try the following command procedure on VMS (Bob Hanisch, ST ScI):
.nf
 $!----------------------------------------------------------------------
 $!   FIXFITS filename
 $!   FIXFITS CONVERTs a file to the desired AIPSFITS disk format
 $!----------------------------------------------------------------------
 $ create/fdl=sys$input: temp.dat
 RECORD
       CARRIAGE_CONTROL        NONE
       SIZE                    2880
       FORMAT                  FIXED
 $!                                      now convert - old fails some
 $! convert/append 'P1' TEMP.DAT
 $!                                      now convert - new method
 $ copy 'P1' TEMP.DAT/overlay
 $ rename temp.dat 'P1'
 $!                                      clean up
 $ purge 'P1'
 $!
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccdsky(1NEMO), ccdfitsio(1NEMO), snapccd(1NEMO), ccdmath(1NEMO), iofits(1NEMO), image(5NEMO), fits(5NEMO), dd(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.0i
~/src/pjt/image  	ccdfits.c ccdfits.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
29-apr-88	V1.0: created, calling WERONG fortran subroutines	PJT
2-jun-88	V1.1: new filestruct, renamed wfits to ccdfits   	PJT
1-oct-90	V2.1: new fitsio and keyword comment=, scale now 1	PJT
11-oct-90	V2.2: added blocking= factor                     	PJT
nov-92     	documented the FITFITS VMS procedure            	PJT
dec-99     	some more documentation             	PJT
apr-01		V3.0 reference map/pixel to inherit a WCS from  	PJT
6-may-02	V4.0b properly implemented dummy= 	PJT
4-jan-04	V5.2 docomented the recent changes to crval/cdelt/crpix=	PJT
20-jun-09	V5.4 added select= to grab not the first image  	PJT
26-may-2016     V5.8 added CUNITn and BUNIT and better parameters for radecvel=true	PJT
.fi
