.TH CCDHIST 1NEMO "8 February 2011"
.SH NAME
ccdhist \- histogram plotter and gaussian fit for image data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBccdhist in=\fPinfile [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIccdhist\fP plots a histogram and computes the first 
4 moments of points obtained from the data values of an
\fIimage(5NEMO)\fP cube.
It calculates the mean, dispersion,
skewness and kurtosis. It then plots the data in the form of a histogram,
optionally with a 'best' gaussian fit and residuals. It can also plot
a cumulative histogram of the data. 
.PP
The median is also optionally computed, for which an 
alternate sorting routine can be selected (if available). 
.PP
Using the \fBnsigma\fP keyword, outliers can be removed
and statistics re-computed (a.k.a. sigma-clipping).
.PP
This program was derived from \fItabhist(1NEMO)\fP, which works on ASCII tables,
and derived much of it's user interface from that program.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIinfile\fP
input file, in tabular format [no default].
.TP
\fBxmin=\fIx_min\fP
Minimum value along X-axis to include 
[default: autoscaling on minimum of datapoints].
.TP
\fBxmax=\fIx_max\fP
Maximum value along X-axis to include 
[default: autoscaling on maximum of datapoints].
.TP
\fBbins=\fIn_bins\fP
If one number is given, it is the number of (equal size) bins between 
min and max.  If more than one number is given, they are the bin edges
(thus one more than the number of bins need to be supplied).
[default: \fB16\fP].
.TP
\fBmaxcount=\fIcount\fP
Maximum count value per bin plotted along the Y-axis
[default: autoscaling].
.TP
\fBylog=t|f\fP
Take log of Y-axis? This option is really redundant, since
\fItabmath(1NEMO)\fP can handle any transformation
[default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBxlab=\fIx-label\fP
Label along the X-axis [default: \fBvalue\fP].
.TP
\fBylab=\fIy-label\fP
Label along the Y-axis [default: \fBN\fP or \fBlog(N)\fP].
.TP
\fBheadline=\fItext\fP
Random verbiage, will be plotted along right top of plot for identification
[default: none].
The left top will contain the filename \fIinfile\fP.
.TP
\fBtab=t|f\fP
Table output? If false, a plot using your current \fIyapp(5NEMO)\fP
device will be given. If true, a simple ascii version of a histogram
is shown. The default choice of \fBbins=16\fP keeps all the information
on a simple 80*24 screen.
[Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
\fBgauss=t|f\fP
If true, plot output will contain
a gaussian fit. The "best" gaussian fit is the
one that has the same mean, dispersion and integrated area
as the data. [Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBresidual=t|f\fP
If true, the residual (data - fit) will be plotted as a dashed line.
[Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBcumul=t|f\fP
Plot a cumulative histogram instead. If set, the keywords gauss, residual,
and ylog are automatically re-set to false. 
[Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBmedian=t|f\fP
Compute median too? This can be timeconsuming for large numbers of points.
[Default: \fBt\fP].
.\" @todo   what about torben method?
.TP
\fBdual=t|f\fP
Dual pass over the data, subtracting the mean. This can be important
if the data have a large average value with a small spread around the mean.
Notice that in this mode the mean is subtracted but never added to
the min/max/mean/median etc. 
Default: f
.TP
\fBnsigma=\fI
Delete points more than nsigma times the sigma from the mean. Also known
as sigma-clipping. After each
point sigma and mean are recomputed. [Default: none]
.\" @todo   iter= to do it a few times?   what about robust=
.TP
\fBsort=\fP\fIsort_mode\fP
.SH BUGS
Points that fall exactly on the boundary of a bin, are added to the
right side. Another way of saying is that a cell includes the left side,
but is open ended on the right side, i.e. [---). Note this behavior is
exactly opposite that of SM's behavior, which was used to compare results.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tabhist(1NEMO), ccdstat(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/image/misc	sources
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
8-feb-2011	V1.0: cloned off tabhist	PJT
.fi

