.TH CCDMOM 1NEMO "3 April 2018"
.SH NAME
ccdmom \- moment or accumulate along an axis of an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBccdmom\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccdmom\fP takes special moments (in position, or image intensity)
along an axis of an image/cube. 
It can optionally also accumulate along the selected axis.
.PP
For datacubes that need to produce velocity fields a number of
alternate options (gaussian fit, envelope tracing etc.) are available
via \fIpvtrace(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
To get the intensity weighted shape of an object using the moments
of inertia, use \fIccdshape(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
Continuum subtraction is needed for reliable moments where applicable.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input image file. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output image file. No default.
.TP
\fBaxis=\fP
Axis to take moment along (1=x 2=y 3=z). Unless \fBkeep=\fP, this axis will
be reduced. [Default: \fB3\fP]
.TP
\fBmom=\fP
Moment to take along the selected axis. For convenience
referring to the selected axis as "\fIvelocity\fP" we have the following moments:
.nf
.ta +0.5i
0	total emission
1	mean velocity
2	sigma, the velocity dispersion (FWHM = 2.355 * sigma)
3	velocity of peak fit (around the max and the two points on either side)
-1	average intensity along the axis
-2	dispersion around the mean intensity along the axis
-3	differentials along an axis
-4	clumping factor (only axis=3 supported now)
30	total emission in the Nth (peak=) peak
31	mean velocity of the Nth peak
32	sigma, velocity dispersion, of the Nth peak
33	h3 (like a skewness) of the Nth peak, 
34	h4 (like a kurtosis) of the Nth peak
.fi
The mom=30,31,32,33,34 computes moments based on the "single profile near the peak",
useful for smooth high S/N profiles. 
For a description of the h3 and h4 see S2.4 in van der Marel & Franx (1993ApJ...407..525V)
[Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBkeep=t|f\fP
Boolean value if to keep the moment axis. If you keep the axis (instead
of compressing it), the values are replaced with the computed moment.
This can be useful if you want to subtract an cube/image with the
mean value along a certain axis. Only in this case (but see also
\fBcumulative=t\fP below) will the output image have the same
shape and dimension as the input image.
[Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBcumulative=t|f\fP
Boolean value if the values should accumulate instead along the selected axis. 
The \fBmom=\fP keyword is ignored, and the input and output datasets will
now have the same shape and dimension. 
[Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
** \fBclip=\fP **
Exclude pixels with values in the range -clip to clip. Default: 0
.TP
** \fBrngmsk=t|f\fP **
Don't assign a 1st moment if the value results in a value outside the
range of the axis. This can easily happen for noisy data. Default: false.
.TP
\fBoper=\fP
If supplied, this is an extra operator supplied to the input file and output file,
to create the final output file. This is to prevent having to type two commands
such as
.nf
    ccdmom map0 tmp0 axis=1 mom=-1 keep=t
    ccdmath map0,tmp0 map1 %1-%2
.fi
instead of
.nf
    ccdmom map0 map1 axis=1 mom=-1 oper=-
.fi
.TP
\fBpeak=N\fP
For \fBmom=3,30-34\fP where it finds the peak, this allows you to find the N-th
peak instead of the first. This is achieved by visiting each peak, and assigning
a peak membership downwards from the peak and then finding the next one.
.TP
\fBintegrate=t|f\fP
When using mom=0 the signal is summed along an axis, you can either just sum
the numbers (this used to be the old default), or integrate, ie. multiply
the sum by the cell-size along that axis. This is now the default, to make
it more consistent with the new units in \fIsnapgrid(1NEMO)\fP.
.TP
\fBabs=t|f\fP
Use absolute values of the intensities for weights to a moment analysis. This is
useful for low S/N data where at the wings a sign change can bias the moments.
It is assumed the data have been continuum subtracted.
.TP
\fBzero=t|f\fP
Mask out values below zero for mom=30,31,32 (**experimental**)
[f]
.TP
\fBcontsub=t|f\fP
Fake a continuum subtraction for mom=30,31,32  (**experimental**)
[t]
.TP
\fBpos=\fP\fI[ix0,iy0]\fP
If used, this should contain two (zero-based) pixel coordinates, at which position a spectrum
is printed to stdout. Currently only implemented along the Z direction, hence X and Y. At
some future time it may also support spectra along Y or X, but most advanced features are only
implemented along axis=3. Default: none
.SH SEE ALSO
pvtrace(1NEMO), ccdsub(1NEMO), ccdrt(1NEMO), ccdshape(1NEMO), snapgrid(1NEMO), mom2cube(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)
.SH CAVEATS
Cannot compute straight moments, e.g. the 2nd moment along an axis, such
as e.g. \fIsnapgrid\fP can do. This 
program only computes user friendly numbers (sum, mean, dispersion)
and gives special meaning to negative values of mom= and axis=.
.SH FILES
src/image/misc/ccdmom.c
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
09-jun-95	V0.1 Created	PJT
19-oct-95	V0.2 simple implementation of axis=3	PJT
12-dec-98	V0.3 finished mom=0,1,2 for all axes	PJT
31-dec-98	V0.4 added keep=	PJT
21-feb-01	V0.4a added mom=3, and fixed major bugs in computing moments	PJT
25-mar-01	V0.5 added mom=-1	PJT
18-oct-05	V0.6 added mom=-2 and cumulative option 	PJT
16-sep-11	V0.8 added clip= and rngmsk= [lost code]	PJT
27-nov-12	V1.0 added oper=	PJT
14-feb-13	V2.0 integrate=t is now the new default for mom=0	PJT
21-jun-2016	V2.3 added mom=30,31,32,33,34	PJT
10-may-2017	V2.4 force q&d cont subtraction on mom=30,31,....	PJT
15-jun-2017	V2.5 add pos= option	PJT
21-jun-2017	V2.6 add abs= option	PJT
.fi
