.TH CCDMATH 1NEMO "23 August 2017" 
.SH NAME
ccdmath \- map arithmetic using function expressions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBccdmath in=\fP[image1[,image2,...]]  \fBout=\fPimage \fBfie=\fPexpression  
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccdmath\fP combines maps through some simple operations to make a new map.
It also handles a few arithmetic functions, such as sqrt, exp, log10. See
\fIfie(3NEMO)\fP for a full definition of the available functions and
operations. Input maps are referred to by \fB%n\fP, where \fBn\fP
is the ordinal number of the input maps (1 being the first one), 
in the function expression \fBfie\fP.
.PP
The program can also be used in creation mode: when no input files are
given, parameters \fB%x\fP, \fB%y\fP and \fB%z\fP in \fBfie=\fP 
can be used to refer to the X, 
Y and Z pixel coordinates in the map to be created, (0,0,0) 
in pixel coordinates w.r.t. reference pixel.
\fB%w\fP and \fB%r\fP can be used for 2D and 3D radius w.r.t. reference pixel, again
in pixel coordinates.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file(s)\fP
list of input file name(s), each in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format.
In case of multiple files, the list must be space or comma separated.
If no files are given, the program is in creation mode.
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, will be in \fIImage(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBfie=\fIexpression\fP
Expression how to manipulate the input maps or
create output map. Input maps are referred to by \fB%n\fP or \fB$n\fP,
in creation mode position is referred to by \fB%x\fP and \fB%y\fP
[no default].
.TP
\fBsize=\fInx,ny,nz\fP
Size of the output map in case program is in creation mode [default: 10,10,1].
.TP
\fBcrpix=\fIr1,r2,r3\fP
(New) values for the reference pixel. Note these are in FITS notation,
i.e. (1,1,1) is the lower left of the first plane in a cube. Recall
that (nx+1)/2 is the central pixel in coordinate X, not nx/2!
By default the WCS is transferred from the first input image to the output
image, however, by using all 3 keywords 
\fBcrpix=,crval=,cdelt=\fP the WCS of the output image can be overwritten.
[Default: \fB1,1,1\fP for image creation].
.TP
\fBcrval=\fIr1,r2,r3\fP
(New) values for the reference pixel.
[Default: \fB0,0,0\fP for image creation].
.TP
\fBcdelt=\fIr1,r2,r3\fP
(New) values for the pixel separation. 
[Default: \fI1,1,1\fP for image creation].
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fIinteger\fP
seed for the random number generator (default: a value 0, which will
be converted into a unique new value using UNIX's clock time, in
seconds since once-upon-a-time-in-the-seventies).
.SH EXAMPLE
Create a 'difference' map from two input maps:
.nf
   % \fBccdmath inmap1,inmap2 outmap "abs(%1-%2)"\fP
.fi
create the maximum of two maps:
.nf
   % \fBccdmath inmap1,inmap2 outmap "ifgt(%1,%2,%1,%2)"\fP
.fi
create the difference of two maps if either of the two is not zero:
.nf
   % \fBccdmath inmap1,inmap2 outmap "ifne(%1,0,%1-%2,ifne(%2,0,%1-%2,0))"\fP
.fi
create a map from scratch:
.nf
  % \fBccdmath out=newmap fie="exp(-((%x-50)/25)**2-((%y-50)/25)**2)" size=100,100\fP
.fi
create a (2 plane 4x3 image) cube from scratch:
.nf
  % \fBccdmath "" cube432 "%x+10*%y+100*%z" 4,3,2\fP
.fi
create a new WCS for an existing cube, with reference value (0,0,0) in the center of the cube,
assuming you know the size of the cube (nx,ny,nz) and pixel sizes (dx,dy,dz):
.nf
  % \fBccdmath cube0 cube1 %1 crpix=$nx/2+0.5,$ny/2+0.5,$nz/2+0.5 crval=0,0,0 cdelt=$dx,$dy,$dz\fP
.fi
and creating an annulus:
.nf
  %  \fBccdmath "" map0 "ifgt(%w,20,1,iflt(%w,10,1,0))" size=512 crpix=256,256\fP
.fi
Rescaling a map to a linear-log, retaining linear near 0, and logarithmic in signal/noise for large values
from the mean:
.nf
  set s = 0.19
  cddmath map0 map0s "sign(%1)*$s*log(1+abs(%1)/$s)"
.fi
.SH TIMING
Performance on Rigel (SUN 3/160, 16Mhz):
.nf
.ta +1i +2i +2i
100 * 100	rang: 5.8"	+: 3.4"  	sqrt: 2.6"
200 * 200	rang: 23.2	+: 13.0"	sqrt: 8.7"
300 * 300	rang: 51.8"	+: 31.3"	sqrt: 23.8"
512 * 512	rang: 152.7"	+: 88.4"	sqrt: 64.2"
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fie(3NEMO), image(5NEMO), tsf(1NEMO), ccdgen(1NEMO), ccdsky(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
src/image/trans  	ccdmath.c ccdmath.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
 1-Jul-87	V1.0: Created	PJT
 6-jul-87	V1.1: order keywords changed for future enhancements	PJT
 1-jun-88	V2.0: new filestruct, although code is same         	PJT
18-dec-88	V2.1: new keyword structure, fie() used.         	PJT
22-jan-89	V2.3: can make map from scratch using %x, %y and %z	PJT
1-mar-03	V3.0: set/change the WCS				PJT
19-jun-03	V3.1: allow %w and %r, and use offset from crpix	PJT
25-aug-04	V3.2: fixed error in setting crpix (off by 2!)		PJT
.fi

