.TH CCDMOS 1NEMO "05 Jul 2005"
.SH NAME
ccdmos \- mosaic a regular pattern of images
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBccdmos\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccdmos\fP started as a quick hack to \fIstitch\fP a set of images into
a single large image, with no overlaps or missing data. 
A list of identically shaped 2D images will be
mosaiced row by row (first image in the lower left bottom). The user
must supply at least the number of rows or columns, in order to establish
the size of the output image.
.PP
There are some extra not-yet-implemented keywords by which a cube
could be generated.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input filename(s). If a large number of filesa are needed where the
shell would complain about exhausting the command line space, use
the \fBin=@list\fP macro style that \fPgetparam(3NEMO)\fP supports.
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output filename [???]     
.TP
\fBnx=\fP
Number of rows []    
Number of rows of input images in the output image. 
At least one of nx or ny must be given.
.TP
\fBny=\fP
Number of columns []    
Number of columns of input images in the output image. 
At least one of nx or ny must be given.
.TP
\fBnz=\fP
Number of planes. Not implemented yet, but by setting 
a number > 1 we could support writing cubes out of
planes, much like what \fIfitsglue(1NEMO)\fP does.
.TP
\fBonefile=t|f\fP
All images in one file? [f]  
This would be useful if one big 2D image is to be made out of an
image cube.
Not supported yet.
.TP
\fBrow=t|f\fP
Should the list of files be processed row-wise (the current default)
or column-wise. Not implemented yet.
.SH CAVEAT
Since it was a quick hack, only very rudimentary error checking exists.
And of course there are all these not-yet-implemented keywords....
.SH EXAMPLES
you're kidding, right?
.SH SEE ALSO
fitsglue(1NEMO), ccdmath(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
1-Jul-05	V1.0 Created	NEMO
.fi
