.TH CCDPLOT 1NEMO "1 April 2022"
.SH NAME
ccdplot \- display program for 2D image maps (contour and/or gray-scale)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBccdplot in=\fPsnapshot [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccdplot\fP is a quick and dirty way
to plot a contour representation of a 2D image map.
It can also superimpose a grayscale represention (not 
all yapp devices support this though), or
optionally leave out the contour values.
.PP
3D images cannot be plotted, but data files that 
contain multiple 2D images are plotted in succession.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, must be in \fIImage(5)\fP format. 
[no default]
.TP
\fBcontour=\fIvalues\fP
A list of contour values to be plotted. If the keyword is not used
a grayscale-map is produced between displaylevels \fBmmin\fP and \fBmmax\fP
(see below). For \fBmmin\fP < \fBmmax\fP this will be a 'negative'
image (lowest values are white, which is also the default).
For \fBmmin\fP > \fBmmax\fP this will be a 'positive' image. 
[default: no contour levels plotted, grayscale is plotted]
.TP
\fBgray=\fItrue|false\fP
Should the grayscale map be used/superimposed? [default depends 
on usage of \fBcontour\fP keyword].
.TP
\fBmmin=\fImmin\fP
Minimum mapvalue to be plotted. [default: auto-scaled].
.TP
\fBmmax=\fImmax\fP
Maximum mapvalue to be plotted [default: auto-scaled].
.TP
\fBpower=\fIvalue\fP
Power of the transfer function for a grayscale display, also known as the
gamma factor. Only values between
\fBmmin\fP and \fBmmax\fP are plotted. A power greater than one will
enhance the higher intensities, smaller than 1 the lower intensities.
Another possibility is to apply a mathematical transformation using
\fIccdmath(1NEMO)\fP before this program.
[default: \fB1\fP, i.e. a linear transfer function].
.TP
\fBxrange=\fIvalues\fP
Range in x to plot, e.g. \fB-2:2\fP [default: whole matrix, sizes are
obtained from mapheader]. 
\fIWarning: BUG, don't used\fP
.TP
\fByrange=\fIvalues\fP
Range in y to plot. See \fBxrange\fP.
\fIWarning: BUG, don't used\fP
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
optional header above plot  [Default: not used]
.TP
\fBtab=\fP
Output table of contour segments. Default not used.
.TP
\fBformat=\fP
Format for above table [Default: %g]
.TP
\fBcmode=\fP
Contour mode (0=orginal 1=pgplot) [Default: 0]
.TP
\fBblankval=\fP
if used, use this as blankval. Default not used.
.TP
\fBltype=\fP
width and type for contour. Default: 1,1
.TP
\fBxlab=\fP
(override) Label along X-axis
.TP
\fBylab=\fP
(override) Label along Y-axis
.TP
\fBxscale=\fP
Scale all X values by this
.TP
\fByscale=\fP
Scale all Y values by this
.TP
\fBrelative=f|t\fP
Use contour levels a fraction of the peak in the image [f]

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
.ta +3i
\fBccdplot foo.dat contour=1:10:0.5\fP	contour map only
\fBccdplot foo.dat\fP              	gray scale map only, with default min/max
\fBccdplot foo.dat contour=1:10:2 gray=true\fP	contour + gray scale map overlayed
.SH "FUTURE ENHANCEMENTS"
A color bar at the bottom, or so.
.PP
Extensive encoding of contour-levels etc. around plot-frame
.PP
Sorting contour values must be done (sort of a bug really)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
image(5NEMO), ccddisplay(1NEMO), uns_2dplot(1NEMO)
.SH BUGS
Not always greyscale map produced, you may need an old version of my yapp_ps.
We haven't decided on a proper way to call/define pl_matrix(3NEMO) I guess.
.PP
Clipping absent, produces awkward pictures when not whole area to be 
displayed.
.PP
Plotting subregions doesn't work
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/image/misc  	ccdplot.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
29-jun-87	V1.0: created from ccd's module 	PJT
30-jun-87	V1.1: improved 'struct' filestruc	PJT
 6-jul-87	V1.2: order keywords optimized for cnt/gray PJT
 8-jul-87	V1.4: proper defn. of cell-position	PJT
 1-jun-88	V2.0: name change, new filestruct, though code same	PJT
 3-apr-91	V2.2: documented that big bug	PJT
13-jan-92	V2.3: added greyscale as plotlabel	PJT
29-mar-97	fixed outdated doc	PJT
20-feb-02	2.8: added ltype; also documented new parameters	PJT
16-mar-05	3.0: added timestep label + multiple timestep plot	PJT
1-apr-22	3.3: added relative=	PJT
.fi
