.TH CCDPRINTI NEMO "15 March 2011"
.SH NAME
ccdprinti \- interpolate values from a map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBccdprinti in=\fP\fIimage\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccdprinti\fP prints out map values in an image. The grid is
specified in x, y and z independantly, and is limited to
either pixel (0...N) or physical coordinates within a map.
See also \fIccdprint(1NEMO)\fP for a version limited to
gridpoints.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format [no default].
.TP
\fBx=\fIx1,x2,...\fP
Grid coordinates in X to display. 
[Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBy=\fIy1,y2,...\fP
Grid coordinates in Y to display. See \fBx=\fP.
[Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBz=\fIz1,z2,...\fP
Grid coordinates in Z to display. See \fBx=\fP.
[Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBscale=\fIscale_factor\fP
scale factor with which the data is multiplied before being displayed
[default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBformat=\fIfmt-expr\fP
Real-valued C-format expression (see also printf(3), 
e.g. %10.6e, %5.2f) with which data and optional
coordinate values are displayed
[default: \fB%g\fP].
.TP
\fBnewline=t|f\fP
Add a newline between each map value
printed? If false, all rows are printed
on one line, and a blank line separates different planes.
[Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
\fBlabel=\fP\fIx,y,z\fP
Any combination of \fBx\fP, \fBy\fP and/or \fBz\fP can be given, which labels
the output with their X, Y and/or Z physical values. 
[Default: no labels].
.TP
\fBoffset=0|1\fP
Should X,Y,Z be 0- or 1- based. NEMO images use 0-based images,
but to appease fortran users, 1-based input can be given here
if this parameter is set to 1. Default: 0
.TP
\fBpixel=t|f\fP
Print out X,Y,Z labels in physical or pixel coordinates. By default
physical. [Default: \fBf\fP]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccdprint(1NEMO), printf(3), image(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~src/image/io	ccdprinti.c 
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
15-mar-2011	V1.0 created	PJT
.fi
