.TH CCDPOT 1NEMO "17 March 2021"
.SH NAME
ccdpot \- potential of an infinitesimally thin disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBccdpot\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Computes the potential in the plane of an infinitesimally thin
disk. The method used
here is VERY slow, since it evaluates the integral exactly as
given in Eq. 2-3 of e.g. \fIGalactic Dynamics\fP by
Binney and Tremaine (1987, 2008).  The integral is replaced by a sum over
the pixel values of the input image of 
.nf
                             Sigma(p)
   Pot(P) = -Gravc * SUM   ---------- dx dy 
                            | p - P |
.fi

P, and p are vector positions, Sigma(p) is the surface density 
at position p. dx and dy are pixel sizes and the 
distance |p-P| is measured in pixels. 
.PP
A faster way is to use FFT's, as described by
Hockney & Eastwood (1978), and implemented in MIRIAD's potfft program.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input image file, in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output image file. No default.
.TP
\fBgravc=\fP
Gravitional constant. Normally taken as 1, but this allows you 
to more easily convert to your own units already. See also
\fIunits(5NEMO)\fP.
Default: 1
.TP
\fBreport=\fP\fIN\fP
Give a rolling percentage progress report every \fIN\fP pixels computed.
Default: 0 (meaning no progress report)
.TP
\fBnbench=1\fP
Set this to how often the integral is computed, in order for fast
versions (small maps) to get accurate timings on fast machines.
[Default: 1]
.SH UNITS
As an example, if units are 1e10Msun and kpc, Gravc = 43007.1 (see
\fIunits(1NEMO)\fP, the potential
.SH SEE ALSO
potential(GIPSY), potfft(MIRIAD), rotcurves(1NEMO), units(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)
.SH TIMING
Since for each of the N^2 pixels, all other N^2 pixels will
be interrogated, this algorithm is O(N^4). In practice you
will find it to be more like O(N^5). The code precomputes
a kernel, which is simplified if we can assume the pixel
size in X and Y are the same. If not, the program will
currently probably compute it terribly wrong.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben  (loosely based on Roelof Bottema's POTENTIAL code)
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
26-Jul-02	V0.1 Created to check potfft   PJT
22-oct-02	V0.2 correct kernel at (0,0)	PJT
28-feb-03	V0.3 added gravc=	PJT
17-mar-2021	V0.6
.fi
