.TH CCDSHAPE 1NEMO "12 June 2013"
.SH NAME
ccdshape \- shape of a 2D or 3D distribution based on moments of inertia
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBccdshape\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Based on intensity weighted moments of inertia, the center, primary axes
and their angles (position angle, inclination, or euler) are computed.
.PP
By default, the three axes in a cube are treated in the same way, but for
astronomical
spectral line cubes the first two (RA-DEC) are different from the third (VEL).
In this case the third axis is decoupled, and instead of sizes and euler angles,
the largest velocity gradient dV/dR and a position angle between kinematic and 
morphological major axis is used.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input image file [???]    
.TP
\fBclip=\fP
Use only values above clip, and below -clip, if only one value given. If two
values given, exclude this range of values. Setting clip=0 should be sufficient
to discard all pixels with the value 0.0.
Default: all values used.
.TP
\fBwcs=t|f\fP
Use axis world coordinate system descriptors or the 0-based coordinate axis
numbers. Default: true.
.TP
\fBradecvel=t|f\fP
Treat the 3rd axis like a separate velocity axis. This decouples the geometry
from the velocity axis. Default: false.
.TP
\fBweight=t|f\fP
Use intensity weighted moments? The alternative is all pixels equal weight.
Default: true.
.TP
\fBcross=t|f\fP
Should cross correlations be taken into account? Normally want this, since that
is what gives the position angles, but some codes (e.g. miriad::clstats) do
not do this, so for comparison this option is available. [Default: true]
.SH CAVEATS
Derived sizes are not corrected for any beam shapes and sizes that may be
present in the header of an image.
.SH EXAMPLES
Taking a disk with a linearly rising rotation curve at a PA of 30 degrees, and
inclination of 60:
.nf
% mkdisk - 1000 harmonic mass=1 | snaprotate - - 60,30 yz | snapgrid - - nz=64 zrange=-2:2 | ccdshape - clip=0
Npoints: 514
Size:    64 64 64
Center:  -6.25e-05 0.0113125 -0.009375 [wcs]
                                                               Theta    Phi
        e_x:     1.00000     0.38733    -0.64866     0.65514    49.1  -59.2
        e_y:     1.00000     0.86218     0.50653    -0.00821    90.5   30.4
        e_z:     1.00000    -0.32652     0.56803     0.75546    40.9  119.9
      qpole:     0.43241    -0.38733     0.64866    -0.65514
                 0.06310     0.86218     0.50653    -0.00821
                 0.00034    -0.32652     0.56803     0.75546

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
snapkinem(1NEMO), snaprect(1NEMO), snapinert(1NEMO)
.SH FILES
src/image/misc/ccdshape.c
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
16-May-2013	V0.1 Created	PJT
19-May-2013	V0.3 added weight= and radecvel=	PJT
.fi
