.TH CCDSMOOTH 1NEMO "10 May 2010"
.SH NAME
ccdsmooth \- smoothing of an image map (2D or 3D)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBccdsmooth in=\fPimage \fBout=\fPimage [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIccdsmooth\fP will smooth an image cube through a simple convolution
(no FFT). The smoothing beam must be circular/spherical, or smoothing
must be done independantly per coordinate by calling \fIccdsmooth\fP
multiple times using the \fBdir=\fP keyword (see below).
.PP
For more artistic versions of a smoothing operation, such as added
noise and diffraction spikes for bright stars, see \fIccddiffract(1NEMO)\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIImage(5)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, will be in \fIImage(5)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBgauss=\fIvalue\fP
Beam size (FWHM, note FWHM = 2*sqrt(2*ln(2)) = 2.355 * sigma) of a 
gaussian smoothing
kernel. Note this is size of the used smoothing kernel, NOT the resulting
beam in the output map.
If this parameter is used, the parameter \fBsmooth\fP is
ignored [default: not used].
.TP
\fBdir=x|y|z\fP
Direction of smoothing. This gives the flexibility of smoothing in
x, y and/or z separately. Note that when smoothing in more than one
coordinate the beam is forced to be circular.
[default: xy].
.TP
\fBsmooth=\fIarray\fP
Smoothing array, should be at least 1 number, prefarably normalized 
to unity for sake for conservation of units (mass per unit square
length). The program does not normalize the beam to unity.
Example is e.g. the Hanning smoothing: "0.25,0.5,0.25".
[default: \fB0.25,0.5,0.25\fP]. This parameter is only used if
\fBgauss\fP parameter is not used.
.TP
\fBnsmooth=\fIvalue\fP
Number of times the above smoothing kernel is applied over the data, 
just in case you wanted to be wasteful.
[default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBbad=\fIbad_value\fP
Input pixel value which to skip in smoothing.
[Default: not used]
.TP
\fBcut=\fIcutoff_value\fP
Value at which to cutoff the gaussian beam. 
[Default: \fB0.01\fP]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccdfill(1NEMO), ccddiffract(1NEMO), snapccd(1NEMO), snapsmooth(1NEMO), snapgrid(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)
.SH TIMING
.nf
.ta +1.0i
With 68881 on SUN 3/50 (~16Mhz) and 200*200 map - old program (pre-V2.1)
Nbeam=17	54"
Nbeam=33	98"
Nbeam=47	140"
.SH BUGS
Smoothing a map which has already been smoothed will result in an incorrect
header - shouldn't it be the simple sum of squares??
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
src/image/trans     	ccdsmooth.c ccdsmooth.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
29-jun-87	V1.0: Created as module from CCD program	PJT
30-Jun-87	V1.1: improved 'struct' filestructure      	PJT
 9-jul-87	V1.2: keyword 'dir' and keyword order changed	PJT
 1-jun-88	V2.0: new filestruct, although code is same	PJT
 5-feb-89	V2.2: general 3D smoothing                	PJT
11-sep-91	some additional comments                	PJT
12-mar-98	V3.1: added cut=, fixed fwhm=0.0         	PJT
.fi
