.TH CCDSTRETCH 1NEMO "19 August 2023"

.SH "NAME"
ccdstretch \- stretching (upscaling) an image cube along a given axis

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBccdstretch\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBccdstretch\fP stretches a selected axis from a cube
by duplicating its pixel values \fBfactor\fP times. This of course causes
a step function along the stretched axis, but a subsequent
\fIccdsmooth(1NEMO)\fP can fix this. See EXAMPLES below.
.PP
Using \fBcompress=t\fP an axis can be binned instead of stretched, with
the option if to average the values or sum them.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIfileName\fP
Input image cube \fIfileName\fP. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIfileName\fP
Output image cube \fIfileName\fP. No default.
.TP
\fBfactor=\fP\fIfactor\fP
The \fIfactor\fP by which the selected axis is stretched. Must be an integer.
[Default: 2]
.TP
\fBaxis=x|y|z\fP
Select the axis to be stretched. Valid are:  x,X,1 for the first axis,
y,Y,2 for the second and z,Z,3 for the third axis of the cube.  Only one
axis can be stretched at the time.
Default: z
.TP
\fBcompress=t|f\fP
Compress (rebin) instead of stretch? [Default: false].
.TP
\fBaverage=t|f\fP
Average when rebinning in compress mode? [Default: true]


.SH "EXAMPLES"
An example of stretching the Z axis of a cube
4 times, and adding some smoothing to make it look less edgy:
.nf

  fitsccd cube.fits - | ccdstretch - - 4 z | ccdsmooth - -  nsmooth=2 dir=z | ccdfits - cube4.fits
  
.fi
Depending how much you stretch, the smoothing function and/or number of times to smooth
may need to be changed. In this example the axis is stretched 4 times, and two hanning smoothings
are then applied.
.PP
If multiple axes need to be stretched, the program currently needs to be run multiple times,
for example in a Unix pipe, as only one axis at the time can be stretched. Here is an example
of stretching a 2 x 2 x 2 cube into a 4 x 4 x 4 cube:
.nf

   ccdgen cube0 noise 0,1 2,2,2
   ccdstretch cube0 - 2 x | ccdstretch - - 2 y | ccdstretch - - 2 z | ccdprint - x= y= z= label=z pixel=t
  
   
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccdsmooth(1NEMO), ccdsub(1NEMO), ccdslice(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)

.SH "FILES"
src/image/trans/ccdstretch.c

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
17-aug-2023	V0.1 for Stuart Vogel's rosetta stone cube	PJT
	paws-pdbi+30m-12co10-1as-cube.fits
19-aug-2023	V0.5 added compress= and average=		PJT
.fi
