.TH CCDSKY 1NEMO "16 March 2013"
.SH NAME
ccdsky \- lazy (cosmology) sky scaling calculator
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBccdsky\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccdsky\fP is a lazy sky scaling calculator. It will give you the scaling parameters
for a FITS file (which uses degrees for angles, and m/s for velocities), to make
your typical observer or astronomical software package happy and print out values 
in units observers can be in awe about. It is also useful to remind yourself
how many arcseconds/minutes a given object is at a given distance.
.PP
Although you can transform an image/cube, the default only needs to know the
distance (in AU, pc, kpc, mpc, z, ...) and unit size (in AU, pc, kpc, mpc, ....) of
the object. This will give you the scaling factors for length and velocities.
.PP 
When the distance is given in z, Wright's (2006) cosmology calculator is used.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Optional input image file. Must be in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output image file, only required if an input image is given. 
Will be in  \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format, with optionally scaled image values and
axes coordinates.
.TP
\fBd=#,[unit]\fP
Distance to your object, and optionally a unit.  
AU, pc, Kpc, Mpc, and Gpc are allowed. You can also specify a dimensionless
number 'z', in which case the special cosmology calculator is used. Or if you know
the recession speed and assume a Hubble constant, d=4500/69,Mpc
[default: 1,pc]    
.TP
\fBr=#,[unit]\fP
Length scale of object, and optionally a unit.
km, AU, pc, Kpc, Mpc, and Gpc are allowed. 
Together with a distance \fBd=\fP, this
will convert the length scale in your maps to degrees, required for FITS.
[default: 1,AU]   
.TP
\fBv=#,[unit]\fP
Velocity scale of object, and optionally a unit. The output units will be
the one that FITS uses, m/s.
[Default: 1,km/s]   
.TP
\fBsdv=#\fP
Total flux, in Jy.km/s, of the source. Based on the distance, it will
the compute the HI and H2 (given some reasonable X factor) masses, in
units of solar masses. Default: 1
.TP
\fBscale=#\fP
Scale the intensity values in the data itself. Default: 1.
.TP
\fBH=\fP
Specify the cosmology model, with up to 3 parameters. Only used
when units in \fBd=\fP are 'z' were specified.
The first parameter is the Hubble Constant.
Optionally followed by the WM (Omega(matter)) and WV (Omega(vacuum)),
for different cosmologies. If only H0 and WM are given,
a flat universe (WV=0) is used. See also Wright(2006).
WMAP-9 values: H=71,0.27,0.73 (2011?),
Planck-1 values: H=67.15,0.317,0.683 (2013)
[Default:  71,0.27,0.73]
.SH H
It will be amusing to see the evolution of H:
.nf
.ta +2i +1i  +1i +1i
WMAP-9 (2011)	71	0.27	0.73
Planck (2013)	67.15	0.317	0.683
Planck (2018)	67.66	0.3111	0.6889
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
Viewing a model at a distance 1 pc, where 1 length unit represents 1 AU,
the coordinates need to be multiplied by 0.000277785 in order for FITS
to view them in the correct angular size of 1 arcsec. 
.nf

% ccdsky d=1,pc r=1,AU v=1,km/s
d=1 pc
r=1 AU
v=1 km/s
rscale=0.000277785  (1.00003 arcsec)
vscale=1000

.fi

To find out the radius of 2 pc at the distance of the galactic center:
.nf
ccdsky r=2,pc d=8.5,kpc
rscale=0.0134814  (48.5329 arcsec)

.fi

Here is an example of creating a small bar, at position angle 30, and
observed at RA=6h and DEC=30d:
.nf

% ccdgen "" map4 bar 1,10,0.5,30 size=512,512,1 
% ccdsky map4 map4b
% ccdfits in=map4b out=map4b.fits radecvel=t crval=90,30 crpix=256.5,256.5
% # now switch to MIRIAD
% fits in=map4b.fits out=map4b.mir op=xyin
% cgdisp in=map4b.mir device=/xs labtyp=arcmin

.fi
and you should see a bar (possibly with a sign error position angle)
of about 1 arcmin in length, in an 8 arcmin field. Notice that
\fIccdfits(1NEMO)\fP also has various options to specify a WCS
which can override the one set by \fIccdgen(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
Here is a cosmological example:
.nf

% ccdsky H=67.7,0.307,0.693   d=2.19,z
-------------------------------------------------------------
For H_o = 67.7  Omega_M = 0.31 Omega_vac = 0.69 z = 2.190
It is now 13.830 Gyr since the Big Bang.
The age at redshift z was 3.012 Gyr.
The light travel time was 10.818 Gyr.
The comoving radial distance, which goes into Hubbles law, is 5592.2 Mpc or 18.239 Gly
The comoving volume within redshift z is 732.530 Gpc^3.
The angular size distance D_A is 1753.026 Mpc or 5.718 Gly.
This gives a scale of 8.499  kpc/arcsec
The luminosity distance D_L is 17839.0 Mpc or 58.183 Gly.
The distance modulus, m-M, is 46.26
-------------------------------------------------------------
d=2.19 z  [3635.8 Mpc]
r=1 AU
v=1 km/s
SdV=1 Jy.km/s
rscale=1.5846e-13  [ 5.70457e-10 arcsec   5.70457e-07 mas]
vscale=1000
iscale=1
Mass(HI) = 7.25098e+11  
Mass(H2) = 3.22675e+10  (alpha=4.3; includes 1.36 He contribution)

.fi
compare this with the (selected) output for \fBgnuastro\fP's
\fIastcosmiccal(1)\fP program:
.nf
  % astcosmiccal  --H0=67.7 --olambda=0.693 --omatter=0.307 -z2.19
  CosmicCalculator (GNU Astronomy Utilities) 0.11

Universe now
 ------------
 - Age of Universe now (Ga*):                             13.844296
 - Critical density now (g/cm^3):                         8.610662e-30
 - Proper distance to z (Mpc):                            5592.995113
 - Angular diameter distance to z (Mpc):                  1753.290004
 - Tangential distance covered by 1 arcsec at z (Kpc):    8.500190
 - Luminosity distance to z (Mpc):                        17841.654411
 - Distance modulus at z (no unit):                       46.257176
 - Conversion to absolute magnitude (no unit):            44.997699

Universe at desired redshift z
 ------------------------------
 - Age of Universe at z (Ga*):                            3.017860
 - Look-back time to z (Ga*):                             10.826436
 - Critical density at z (g/cm^3):                        9.177897e-29

.fi
.SH CAVEATS
Although the conversion from an observed HI flux to mass is not
too controversial (sans optical depth effects), the conversion 
from CO to a mass is still under debate. We use the value
2e20 cm-2/K km/s.
.SH SEE ALSO
ccdgen(1NEMO), ccdmath(1NEMO), ccd2vel(1NEMO), ccdfits(1NEMO), snapscale(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)
.PP
http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0609593  \fIA Cosmology Calculator for the Web\fP (E.Wright)
.PP
http://www.astro.ucla.edu/~wright/CosmoCalc.html \fI The CosmoCalc website\fP
.PP
https://ascl.net/gnuastro
.SH FILES
NEMO/src/image/trans	ccdsky.c - source code
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +0.5i +3.0i
17-Aug-2012	V1.0 Created		PJT
23-aug-2012	V1.1 added sdv=		PJT
28-aug-2012	V1.2 implemented scale=	PJT
28-feb-2013	V2.2 more verbose, added H=	PJT
16-mar-2013	V3.0 added Wright's cosmology calculator	PJT
.fi
