.TH CCDSUB 1NEMO "8 June 2013"
.SH NAME
ccdsub \- sub/average of an image, and optionally reorder axes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBccdsub\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccdsub\fP takes a subimage from an image, as described by a new
set of coordinates in X, Y and/or Z (since the expression of the
selected axes is arbitrary, the resulting coordinate system may
be bogus).
.PP
Since cubes/images produced by this program may have dummy
axes (length 1), you will need to use \fIccdslice(1NEMO)\fP to
get rid of them, or use the \fBdummy=\fP keyword below.
.PP
If no parameters are given, other than in= and out=, the image
is copied straight through, which is still a great way to
test your I/O subsystem, assuming your image fits in memory.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input image file     
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output image file     
.TP
\fBx=\fP
X coordinates to select. 
Valid numbers are 1..nx. By default all will be selected.
.TP
\fBy=\fP
Y coordinates to select.
Valid numbers are 1..ny. By default all will be selected.
.TP
\fBz=\fP
Z coordinates to select.
Valid numbers are 1..nz. By default all will be selected.
.TP
\fBnxaver=\fP
Number X to aver (size remains same) 
.TP
\fBnyaver=\fP
Number Y to aver (size remains same) 
.TP
\fBnzaver=\fP
Number Y to aver (size remains same) 
.TP
\fBdummy=t|f\fP
Write out dummy axes as well? [true]
.TP
\fBreorder=xyz\fP
New order of axes after all previous actions have been taken.
The default is no reordering, i.e. keep it in \fBxyz\fP order.
To reverse only the X and Y axis, \fBreorder=yxz\fP is needed.
.SH EXAMPLES
To reorder a cube from xyz to zxy and back to xyz, the 2nd step
will have a perhaps non-intuitive axis reordering, since it refers
to the new "zxy" order:
.nf
    ccdsub cube0 - reorder=zxy | ccdsub - cube1 reorder=yzx
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ccdslice(1NEMO), ccdmom(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
1993     	code written     	PJT
22-Feb-97	man page written	PJT
12-aug-02	more doc	PJT
17-jun-03	WCS for simple subsetting	PJT
9-apr-09	V1.6 replace skip= with dummy=, fix bug nzaver=  	PJT
18-jun-09	V2.0a fixed bug when Z size if different from XY	PJT
.fi
