.TH CCDSTAT 1NEMO "14 February 2013"
.SH NAME
ccdstat \- statistics (1st through 4th moment) and chi2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBccdstat in=\fPimage [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccdstat\fP calculates all moments (up to fourth order) of the values
in an image/cube, 
and calculate some human understandable numbers (mean, dispersion, skewness,
curtosis) from them. It can optionally use a weighting map, in case the 
map needs to be weighted per pixel.
.PP
Optionally, if the map contains an error normalized difference between an
observation and model, it can also compute a chi2 goodness of
fit if the number of 
of fitting parameters is given
(\fBnpar\fP, must be > 0 to trigger this option),
as well as the number of independant points per beam (\fBnppb\fP):
.nf
    chi2 = sum_{i,j}(map(i,j)^2)/nppb/(N/nppb-npar)
.fi
where N is the number of non-bad values in the map. The input 
map is now assumed to contain a dimensionless \fI(obs-mod)/sigma\fP
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIImage(5)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBmin=\fImin_value\fP
If given, all values below this value are ignored in the statistics. 
By default no lower limit is used.
.TP
\fPmax=\fImax_value\fP
If given, all values above this value are ignored in the statistics.
By default no upper limit is used.
.TP
\fBbad=\fIbad_value\fP
If given, all values identical to this value are ignored in the statistics.
Note that, apart for bad=0, it is dangerous to use equating to a real value
as a masking operating.
.TP
\fBwin=\fIweight-file\fP
optional input file, in \fIImage(5)\fP format, of which the mapvalues
are used as a relative weight factor. Should be all positive, with 0
meaning no weight.
[no default]
.TP
\fBnpar=\fP
Number of fitting parameters. If given > 0, this will trigger the
computation of chi2 goodness of fit, instead of the normal statistics.
.TP
\fBnppb=\fP
Number of (independant) points per beam. Only used in the computation
for chi2, and 
.TP
\fBmedian=t|f\fP
Optional display of the median value
.TP
\fBrobust=t|f\fP
Conmpute robust mean, median and dispersion. Default: f
.TP
\fBmmcount=t|f\fP
Count occurances of min and max 
.TP
\fBhalf=f|t\fP
Only use half (negative) values and symmetrize them 
.TP
\fBmaxmom=\fP
Maximum moments it should compute. The current maximum is 4, moments up
through the kurtosis are computed. For maxmom<0 no work is done, except
for reading the file, which can be used to benchmark your disk I/O for
large NEMO images.  [Default: 4].
.TP
\fBignore=t|f\fP
This will ignore the cell width when summing emission for any axis
that has only one cell (assumed infinity, or a result of \fIccdmom(1NEMO)\fP).
Setting this to false, will not ignore that cell width. [Default : t]
.TP
\fBsort=t|f\fP
Sorting routine (not activated yet) 
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf
  % ccdstat image.ccd min=-2
Min=-1.879409  Max=2.265516
Number of points     : 95
Mean and dispersion  : 0.097891 0.956030
Skewness and kurtosis: -0.059936 -0.654776
5/100 out-of-range points discarded
.fi
Here is an example how to created a weight file which is a circular annulus:
.nf
  % ccdmath out=map1 "fie=iflt(%r,50,1,0)" size=200,200 crpix=100,100
  % ccdmath out=map2 "fie=iflt(%r,20,1,0)" size=200,200 crpix=100,100
  % ccdmath map1,map2 map3 %1-%2
.fi
Here is an two masking example: firstignoring the exact value of 0, 
followed by an example of a small range around 0:
.nf
  % ccdstat map1 bad=0
  % ccdmath map1 - 'iflt(abs(%1),0.001,0,%1)' | ccdstat - bad=0
.fi
Here is an example of calculating the chi2 goodness of fit for
a gaussian distribution:
.nf
  % ccdmath "" - "rang(0,1)" | ccdstat - npar=1	
Generating a map from scratch
chi2= 1.03431
df= 98
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapccd(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
src/image/misc	ccdstat.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
 4-Oct-88	V1.0: Created		PJT
9-may-03	V1.3: added bad=	PJT
5-jun-03	V1.4: added win=	PJT
14-nov-04	V1.5: added the chi2 trigger with npar= and nppb=	PJT
24-may-06	V1.8: added mmcount	PJT
15-oct-11	V1.10: added maxmom= and bench options	PJT
14-feb-13	V2.0:  ignore=t to properly handle units	PJT
.fi
