.TH CCDTRACE 1NEMO "26 July 2015"
.SH NAME
ccdtrace \- interpolate a set of coordinates from an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBccdtrace\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccdtrace\fP takes a set of (X,Y) coordinates, in the form
of an ascii \fItable(1NEMO)\fP, and interpolates them from an
\fIimage(1NEMO)\fP. The output will also be in standard table
format. The input coordinate must be in the physical coordinates
of the input image, as defined by Xmin/Ymin/Dx/Dy coordinates
(see \fItsf(1NEMO)\fP to view them). Sky image copied via
FITS can sometimes have unexpected units. See also \fIfits(5NEMO)\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIimage\fP
Input Image(5NEMO) file. Currently only 2D images are supported,
for 3D cubes the first plane could be used. 
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIxyi_table\fP
Output table of X,Y,I coordinates. 
No default.
.TP
\fBxytab=\fP\fIxy_table\fP
Input table of X,Y coordinates (in units of the WCS of the input image).
No default.
.TP
\fBnmax=\fP
Allocation space for input XY table, if needed. This value is
only needed when the XY table is read from a device which cannot
seek (e.g. a pipe).
Default: 10000.
.TP
\fBcumul=t|f\fP
Add a 4th column in the output which is the culumative length, in the
native units. Default: f
.TP
\fBwcs=t|f\fP
By default, the table is assumed to be in WCS (the units used in the image),
but with wcs=f you can use pixel coordinates.
.SH FILES
src/nbody/evolve/flowcode/ccdtrace.c
.SH SEE ALSO
ccdprint(1NEMO), tsf(1NEMO), image(5NEMO), fits(5NEMO), ccdfits(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
31-jul-96	V1.0 Created     	Peter Teuben
26-sep-2001	V1.0a updated doc, fixed code for file_lines	PJT
26-jul-2015	V1.1 added cumul=t option	PJT
26-jul-2015     V1.2 added wcs=f option		PJT
.fi
