.TH CSG 1NEMO "27 May 2006"
.SH NAME
CGS, runCGS\-  Collisionless Galactic Simulator N-body code
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBCGS\fP 
.PP
\fBrunCGS\fP  [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fICGS\fP  (Collisionless Galactic Simulator) is a spherical harmonics Particle-Mesh code
originally presented by van Albada (1982), and recently partially rewritten and improved
by Michele Trenti.
The radial grid is adaptive, and keeps constant mass shells.
The angular dependance of the force is expressed in terms of Legendre polynomials.
The code is highly suitable to evolve quasi-spherical smooth initial condition.
.PP
The code computes the potential on an (adaptive) grid, by expanding the density
in spherical harmonics. Forces are then computed by numerical differentiation,
and particles are advanced by a global but variable time-step using a leap-frog scheme.
.PP
The code consists of an original (fortran based) executable, \fBCGS\fP, 
plus a NEMO style wrapper, named \fBrunCGS\fP. Since the 
fortran executable assumes files with a fixed name, it can be somewhat cumbersome
to run multiple sets of simulations with different input parameters.
A simple frontend organizes a directories structure and
places their output in these run directories, as well as optionally handles I/O
to/from NEMO \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP files.
.PP
A detailed code description can be found in Trenti M. (2005),  
PhD Thesis, Scuola Normale Superiore Pisa (Italy)
[mainly Chapter 3]. A copy of the thesis is in $NEMO/usr/trenti/CGS/doc/.

.SH PARAMETER
There are the NEMO command line parameters for \fBrunCGS\fP:
.TP 24
\fBout=\fP\fIdirectory\fP
Output directory. Must not exist yet. 
In this directory a number of
files will be produced by the code. See below. 
No Default.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP
Number of bodies. Only needed if a model from scratch when
for \fBflag=1\fP (see below). This parameter is limited
by the compiled NPMAX parameter in the fortran code (see below).
[Default: 40000]
.TP
\fBnrad=\fP
Number of radial zones. This number is limited by the
compiled NRGMAX parameter (see below). ??? what about angular, not as parameter ???
[Default: 80]
.TP
\fBmaxstep=\fP
Maximum number of integration steps.
[Default: 1000]
.TP
\fBdt=\fP
Initial integration step.
[Default: 0.025]
.TP
\fBtstart=\fP
Start time of integration.
[Default: 0.0]
.TP
\fBtstop=\fP
Stop time of integration.
[Default: 4.0]
.TP
\fBdtmin=\fP
Minimum allowed integration step.
[Default: 0.001]
.TP
\fBdtmax=\fP
Maximum allowed integration step.
[Default: 0.01]
.TP
\fBflag=\fP
Input Creation flag. 1=Plummer sphere from scratch (needs \fBnbody=\fP).
2=\fIclumpy homogeneous\fP from scratch (needs \fBvirial=\fP)
3=initial conditions from a POS and VEL file. 
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBmass=\fP
Total mass of the system. 
[Default: 1.0]
.TP
\fBvirial=\fP
Initial virial ratio for \fBflag=2\fP.
[Default: 1.0]
.TP 
\fBndtcmss=\fP
Number of timesteps between CMSS (center of mass of bound particles adjustment) call.
For simulations where the coordinates of the center of mass of bound
particles are not expected to change (e.g. for simulations starting from
quasi-equilibrium configurations) consider setting \fBndtcmss\fP >= \fBmaxstep\fP.
In this case a frequent recentering of the center of expansion of the
potential might in fact introduce artificial stochastic heating. If
starting from out of equilibrium conditions, e.g. for  simulating a cold
collapse, then it is recommended to set \fBndtcmss\fP to a number sufficiently
small that several recenterings are performed in a dynamical time.
[Default: 2000]
.TP
\fBndtdiag=\fP
Number of timesteps between diagnostics call. Note that each diagnostics call 
has some overhead associated with it.
[Default: 50]
.TP
\fBndtout=\fP
Number of time steps between writing snapshots.
Note that each call has some overhead associated with it if the potential is selected for output
[Default: 10]
.TP
\fBin=\fP\fIfile\fP
Input data is read from \fIfile\fP, which must be a structured binary file.
If left blank, it is assumed that the (plummer) flag parameter is set to
1 or 2. Note that masses are ignored. Files must be given in an absolute
directory notation, no relative patchs.
.TP
\fBexe=\fP\fIexecutable\fP
Name of the (fortran) executable. Needs to be in your search $PATH, or else
the full absolute path needs to be supplied here.
[Default: CGS.exe]
.TP
\fBnemo=t|f\fP
Should the snapshot data be converted to NEMO format? If so, the ASCII snapshot
is removed. NOTE: Using this option requires extra diskspace. Default: [\fBt\fP]
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
PARAMETER.DAT	basic input parameters (see below for details)

initPOS.dat	input positions if \fBflag=3\fP
initVEL.dat	input velocities if \fBflag=3\fP

init_virial.dat	input virial ratio if \fBflag=2\fP

fort.2		various diagnostics output (heritage from the original van Albada 1982 version)
fort.11		inner lagrangian radii vs time
fort.12		outer lagrangian radii vs time
fort.13		radial and tangential velocity dispersions
fort.14		total radial and tangential kinetic energy
fort.16		inertia tensor eigenvalues vs. time
fort.17		ellipticity ratios b/a and c/a vs. time
fort.18 	density computed over the radial grid vs. time
fort.19 	time, angular momentum components, and mean shape parameter or orbits
fort.20 	time, total energy, virial ratio -2K/W, total angular momentum
fort.28		same as fort.18, but for bound particles
fort.33		same as fort.13, but for bound particles
fort.34		same as fort.14, but for bound particles
fort.90		one or more snapshots (one line header plus index,pc/os,vel data in a table)

snap.out	Output snapshots, in NEMO's \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. Note no masses present!

.fi
.PP
Sample \fIPARAMETER.DAT\fP initialization file (the default benchmark):
.nf
.ta +1.5i
 80				!RADIAL GRID NUMBER
 40000				!NUMBER OF PARTICLES
 1000				!NUMBER OF STEPS (MAX)
 2000				!NUMBER OF TIME STEPS FOR CMSS CALL
 50				!NUMBER OF TIME STEPS FOR DIAGNOSTIC CALL
 10				!NUMBER OF TIME STEPS FOR WRITING SNAPSHOTS 
 0.0025				!TIME STEP OF INTEGRATION
 0.				!START TIME OF SIMULATION
 4.				!END TIME OF SIMULATION
 1.				!TOTAL MASS OF SYSTEM
 1				!PLUMMER INIT CONDITION FLAG (1=true)
 0.01				!MAX ALLOWED DT --> MDT
 0.001				!MIN ALLOWED DT
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example uses runCGS to run the standard benchmark:
.nf
   % runCGS out=bench1 
.fi
.SH COMPILATION
Note that various parameters (maximum grid size, maximum number of particles)
are hardcoded during compilation, though easily changed in the right file:
.nf
.ta +1i +2i
common.blk:	parameter(NPMAX=2000000)	Max number of particles
common.blk:	parameter(NRGMAX=501)		Max number of radial grids
common.blk:	parameter(NHAR=4)        	Number of harmonics used [NHAR <= LMAX-1]
common.blk:	parameter(LMAX=7)        	Legendre Polynomials (do not modify)
common.blk:	parameter(NCE=28)        	Max number of Spherical Harmonics Coefficients (do not modify)

.fi
.SH BENCHMARKS
The standard benchmark is 40000 particles and runs for 832 steps. The user CPU is listed (in sec)
in the 2nd column. 
.nf
.ta +2.5i
P4/1.6	325.9 (g77 3.2.3)
P4/1.6	292.7 (gfortran 4.0.1)
P4/1.6	195.9 (intel 8.1)
G5/1.6	218.5 (g77 3.5.0)
AMD64/	130.3 (g77 3.4.2)
Xeon-X5660@2.80GHz	79.4 (gfortran_4.4.7 -O3) - gaia
i7-8550U @ 1.80GHz	43.4 (gfortran_7.3.0 -O3) - T480
i7-3820 CPU @ 3.60GHz	52.5 (gfortran_4.4.7 -O3) - dante
i7-3820 CPU @ 3.60GHz	31.7 (ifort_12.1.0 -O3) - dante

.fi
You can run the command either as:
.nf
   % time runCGS out=bench1 nemo=f
or
   % time CGS
.fi
.SH DATA CONVERSION
If output \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP are requested, CGS will create a file \fBfort.90\fP, which can be converted
to NEMO's \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP, viz.
.nf
   tabtos $old/fort.90 snap90 nbody,time skip,pos,vel,acc,phi
.fi

.SH UNITS
Although all particles are equally massive (by the nature of the code),
the total mass of the system can be choosen as an input parameter. The
gravitation constant is 4.4971, which is appropriate for a galactic
scale system where the units (see also \fIunits(5NEMO)\fP) are
10^11 solar mass, 10 kpc and 10^8 years. This gives a unit of velocity
of about 97.8 km/s.
.SH SEE ALSO
scfm(1NEMO), quadcode(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), units(1NEMO), units(5NEMO)
.PP
.nf
Trenti, M. (2005), PhD Thesis, Pisa (see Chapter 3 for many details on the code)
Trenti, M. Bertin, G. and van Albada, T.S. (2005) A&A 433, 57
van Albada, T.S. (1982), MNRAS, 201, 939. \fIDissipationless galaxy formation and the R to the 1/4-power law\fP 
van Albada, T.S. & van Gorkum, J.H. (1977) A&A,54,121. \fIExperimental Stellar Dynamics for Systems with Axial Symmetry\fP
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Michele Trenti & Tjeerd van Albada (NEMO adaptation: Peter Teuben)
.SH CREDIT
Any scientific publication or presentation which has benefited from using CGS should quote the paper
.nf
   Trenti, M. Bertin, G. and van Albada, T.S. (2005) A&A 433, 57
.fi
(please find this paper and the PhDthesis.pdf file in the subdirectory CGS/doc).
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +3i
2003	original version	M. Trenti & T.van Albada
3-nov-05	V0.1 alpha release testing	PJT
12-dec-05	V0.2 writing simple pos/vel snapshots using freqout=	MT/PJT
22-mar-06	V0.5 writing potential and forces to output	MT
22-may-06	V1.0 released within NEMO	MT/PJT
.fi
