.TH CSF 1NEMO "12 December 2009"
.SH NAME
csf \- copy structured file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcsf in=\fP\fIin-file\fP \fBout=\fP\fIout-file\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcsf\fP copies a NEMO structured file.  By using the \fBitem\fP and
\fBselect\fP keyword items can be selected by name and/or number.  Note
that items can currently only be selected from the top level, items
within a set can not be selected this way; they are copied as a whole. 
This is likely to be improved at a later stage.  Automatic
data-conversion can also be done.  By default all items are copied, and
no data conversion is applied. 
.PP
An overview of the top level items that are present in a structured
file can be obtained with the following Unix pipe:
.nf
    % \fBtsf in_file | grep "^[a-z,A-Z]" | grep -v "^tes" | awk '{print $2}'
.fi
.PP
Although \fIstructured files\fP can always be read when they were created
on a byte swapped machine, \fIcsf\fP can also be used to create a file
in which the bytes are not swapped.
.SH PARAMETERS
.so man1/parameters
.TP 24
\fBin\fP=\fIin-file\fP
Input file, must be in \fIfilestruct(5NEMO)\fP format
[no default].
.TP
\fBout\fP=\fIout-file\fP
Output file, will be in \fIfilestruct(5NEMO)\fP format
[no default].
.TP
\fBitem\fP=\fIitem-list\fP
List of top level items, separated by comma's or spaces, to be copied.
If none are provided, all items are selected. Note that the 
\fIitem-list\fP will be case sensitive.
[default: -blank-].
.TP
\fBselect\fP=\fIselect-list\fP
List of numbers (1 being the first) that are select for 
copying, after the above mentioned item-name selection
(from the \fBitem=\fP keyword) has been applied.
If none are provided, all are copied.
[default: -blank-].
.TP
\fBconvert\fP=\fIconvert-list\fP
List of conversions to make, separated by comma's or spaces. Each conversion
is of the format \fIfrom\fP2\fIto\fP, where both the \fIfrom\fP and
\fIto\fP part are any of: \fBd\fP (double), \fBf\fP (float), \fBh\fP 
(half precision) ,
\fBl\fP (long), \fBi\fP (int) or \fBs\fP (short). 
[Default: -blank-].
.SH CAVEAT
Some of the conversions in \fBconvert=\fP
are not supported or are in danger of loosing more than just precision.
.SH EXAMPLES
An image with too much data-history can be cut by only copying the \fIImage\fP
items:
.nf
   % csf in=map1.ccd out=map2.ccd select=Image
.fi
.SH BUGS
Items can only be selected (\fBselect=\fP) from the top level.
.SH SEE ALSO
cp(1), tsf(1NEMO), rsf(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben, Joshua E. Barnes
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +1.5i
~/src/kernel/io  	csf.c
.fi
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
xx-xxx-87	V1.0: created	JEB
9-dec-89	V1.1 added select keyword	PJT
10-oct-90	V1.3 select= is now item=: select= used for counting	PJT
4-mar-91	V1.4 added data conversion option via convert=    	PJT
13-feb-92	documentation added	PJT
26-mar-95	V1.5 fixed selection bug and clarified doc	PJT
12-dec-09	V1.6 added support for half precision (halfp) type	PJT
.fi
