.TH CTEX 1NEMO "14 November 1993"
.SH NAME
ctex \- extract tex comments from C/C++ source code
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBctex [-tex|-latex|-raw]\fP\fI file(s)...\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIctex\fP is a very simple awk-based filter that
extracts tex(t) comments from C/C++ source code. The comments
must currently be structured in the following way:
.nf

    /*CTEX
     *  text can start here,
     *  as long as there is a space after the first * on
     *  the line, everything is output verbatim
     *  The '*' followed by '/' will terminate the text
     *  section, i.e. this line is the last CTEX output line
     */

.fi
Output mode mode can be selected.
In (la)tex mode a small header and footer are added, as to be able
to directly use the output of ctex by (la)tex.
.PP
Each \fI/*CTEX\fP section generates a new \fITeX\fP paragraph, but
you can always add your own tex command, such as \fI \\bigskip\fP.
.SH COMMAND LINE SWITCHES
.TP 15
.B -latex
Output in latex mode. 
.TP
.B -tex
Output in tex mode, which is the default.
.TP
.B -raw
Output in raw mode. No (la)tex headers and footers added to
the output stream.
.TP
.B -section
Each new file causes a \fIsection{file}\fP command, should be used in
latex mode only
.TP
.B -subsection
Each new file causes a \fIsubsection{file}\fP command, should be used in
latex mode only
.TP
.B -centerline
Each new file causes a \fIcenterline{file}\fP command, can be used in tex and
latex mode.
.TP
.B -noheader
No (la)tex header before all files are processed.
.TP
.B -nofooter
No (la)tex footer after all files have been processed.
.TP 
.B -index
Add latex \fIindex{potential, file}\fP commands.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example extracts all potential formalae, and
formats them in tex:
.nf

    % ctex -tex $NEMO/orbit/potential/data/*.c > pot.tex
    % tex pot
    % dvips pot

.fi
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +1i
ctex      	c-shell script, wrapper for ctex.awk
ctex.awk	simple awk script needed to parse the file
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
30-oct-93	created for mkop.c 	PJT
14-nov-93	added many more options	PJT
.fi

