.TH DEMFITS 1NEMO "27 March 1999"
.SH NAME
demfits \- Read DEM (Digital Elevation Maps) from USGS
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdem\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdemfits\fP (previously called \fBdem\fP) converts ASCII DEM
(Digital Elevation Maps) from the USGS into a FITS file. 
Currrently it converts the 1:250,000-scale 
1 degree (with 3 arcseconds resolution )
which have a size of 1201 by 1201 pixels, as well
as the 7.5 arcmin maps (with 1 arcsec resolution)
The output file is a FITS data-unit (no header currently written).
You need to use a script (see EXAMPLE below) 
to add a header and flip the X and Y
axes. Note that North will be Right, and East Up if you display this
block of data in the usual convention of
the first data in the lower left corner
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input DEM file     
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output FITS data unit file     
.TP
\fBnaxis=\fP\fInx,ny\fP
Preset the size of the output map
.TP
\fBcrval=\fP\fIx0,y0\fP
Preset the lower left corner of the image. The output dataset will have
pixels not within the region set to 0.
.TP
\fBnewfmt=t|f\fP
New format has to be used if data items 17-28 are present in the 
A record. Default: f
.TP
\fBc=t|f\fP
Force reading of a trailing C record (not implemented yet). Default: f.
.TP
\fBtab=\fP
If given, this will be the name of an ascii table file that contains
a listing of the extracted X,Y,Z values. Default: not used.
.SH UNITS
Units are directly taken from the USGS maps. E.g. the 1-degree maps are
in standard arcseconds, maps are 1201 by 1201 pixels. The 7.5 arcmin maps
are in Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) projection, units in meters
(x=Easting, y=Northing; after the proper
transformation). Height is in meters in both cases.
.SH CAVEATS
Lots of header variables not properly checked, and hardcoded/assumed
in the source code. Once a proper FITS file is be written, this will
be cleaned up.
.PP
1 degree maps should be processed with \fBdem1\fP (the first version),
7.5 arcmin maps with \fBdem\fP, but not after the proper coordinate
system (\fBnaxis=, crval=\fP) has been found out, otherwise you will
probably wind up with a map with lots of zeros :-)
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is a very simple shell script that adds a FITS header to a block of 
data of which you know the size:

.nf
#! /bin/csh -f
#       Usage:  SCRIPTNAME NX NY BASENAME
#       Input:  BASENAME
#       Output: BASENAME.fits
set nx=$1
set ny=$2
set base=$3
set tmp=tmp$$

echo "SIMPLE  =                    T /"   >  $tmp.txt
echo "BITPIX  =                   16 /"  >>  $tmp.txt
echo "NAXIS   =                    2 /"  >>  $tmp.txt
echo "NAXIS1  =                 $nx"     >>  $tmp.txt
echo "NAXIS2  =                 $ny"     >>  $tmp.txt
echo "END"                               >>  $tmp.txt

fitshead in=$tmp.txt out=$tmp.fitshead
cat $tmp.fitshead $base > $base.fits

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ftp://edcftp.cr.usgs.gov/pub/
.SH FILES
.nf
NEMO/usr/pjt/usgs    - more formal releases
/bootes3/teuben/usgs - development
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
10-dec-96	V0.0 handle 1-degree maps (kludged)	pjt
11-dec-96	V0.1 handle 7.5 arcmin maps (more kludged)	pjt
23-mar-99	V0.3 added some doc and better 7.5arcmin support	Pjt
.fi
