.TH DICE 1NEMO "14 November 2017"
.SH NAME
dice \-  create initial conditions of idealised galaxies
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdice dice.config\fP 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIDICE\fP
is an open source code modelling initial conditions of idealised
galaxies to study their secular evolution, or to study more complex
interactions such as mergers or compact groups using N-Body/hydro
codes. The particularity of this code is its ability to setup a large
number of components modelling distinct parts of the galaxy. The code
creates 3D distributions of particles using a N-try MCMC algorithm
which does not require a prior knowledge of the distribution
function. The gravitational potential is then computed on a
multi-level cartesian mesh by solving the poisson equation in the
Fourier space. Finally, the dynamical equilibrium of each component is
computed by integrating the Jeans equations for each
particles. Several galaxies can be generated in a row and be placed on
Keplerian orbits to model interactions. DICE writes the initial
conditions in the Gadget1 or Gadget2 format and is fully compatible
with Ramses thanks to a patch included in the public ramses
distribution.
.SH RUNNING
DICE uses ascii files as inputs. There is three kind of files to consider:
.PP
DICE configuration files, which are the only argument you should give to DICE.
.PP
Galaxy parameters files, which list all the physical parameters of each galaxy you want to build.
.PP
Stream parameters files, which list all the physical parameters of each stream you want to build.
.PP
Calling DICE should then look like this:
.nf
    dice dice.config
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
mkplummer(1NEMO), magalie(1NEMO), mkkd95(1NEMO)
.PP
https://bitbucket.org/vperret/dice/wiki/Running%20DICE
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Valentin Perret 
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
14-nov-2017	man written	PJT
.fi
