.TH DIRECT4 1NEMO "19 May 1997"
.SH NAME
direct4 \- simple N-body integrator for GRAPE-4 Pipelined N-body engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdirect4 in=\fIin_file\fP \fBout=\fIout_file\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdirect4\fP is a simple equal timestep
direct N-body integrator that is used with the
GRAPE-4 Pipelined N-body engine by compiling it with the grape I/O
libraries. 
.PP
With a special compile flag this program can also compute the forces
on the front-end instead of the GRAPE4 board.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input file name, in standard \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format.
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
output file name, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format.
No default.
.TP
\fBdt=\fP
integration timestep.
[Default: 1/32]
.TP
\fBtstop=\fP
Stoptime       
[Default: 2.0]
.TP
\fBdtout=\fP
Output timestep of datadumps.
[Default: 0.25]
.TP
\fBdtlog=\fP
Output timestep for the logfile.
[Default: 0.25]
.TP
\fBeps=\fP
Standard softening length. All particles share the same gravitational
softening length.
[Default: 0.05]
.TP
\fBpcmode=t|f\fP
Add a Predictor-Corrector step to the leapfrog integrator.
[Default: f]
.SH COMPILATION
The original program source code (\fBgrape.c\fP) could be compiled with
many flags (-Dxxx) to target different hardware boards (GRAPE1, GRAPE2,
GRAPE3, HARP3). Although this was a flexible solution to code
maintenance, the current source code (\fbdirect4.c\fP) is a severely
trimmed version of the original for HARP3=1 and NOSHARE. 
.PP
Here are the compilation options: (not some will be mutually exclusive of
others):
.nf
	EXACT_CALCULATION	no GRAPE, use exact calculations on HOST 
	CHECK_GRAPE		compare GRAPE with exact HOST calculations
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
hackcode1(1NEMO), nbody0(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), atos(1NEMO), stoa(1NEMO)
.SH FILES
.ta +1i
.nf
usr/pjt/grape	direct4.c
[makino]	grape.c (original code, compilable for all boards)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Jun Makino, Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
16-sep-89	V1.0 Initial workbench version w/ exact force calculation	JM
17-May-97	V2.0 Simplified version for NEMO and GRAPE4	PJT
.fi
