.TH DIRECTCODE1 1NEMO "30 July 2009"
.SH NAME
directcode \- simple direct N-body code
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdirectcode\fP [\fIparameter\fP=\fIvalue\fP] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIdirectcode\fP is a simple leapfrog equal-timestepping direct N-body code.
.PP
The infra-structure of the code is derived from \fIhackcode1(1NEMO)\fP,
though most of the save and restore state code has been removed to keep
the code simple.
.PP
It is possible with this code to change the softening to mean a pseudo-Newtonian
interaction, using 1/r -> 1/(r-eps), where eps=3GM/c^2.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized; they may be given in any order
if supplied with their keyword.
.TP 24
\fBin\fP=\fIin-file\fP
If given, initial conditions will be read from \fIin-file\fP in
snapshot format.
At most one of \fBin\fP, \fBrestart\fP, or \fBcontinue\fP may be specified.
.TP
\fBout\fP=\fIout-file\fP
If given, results are written to \fIout-file\fP in snapshot format.
.TP
\fBnbody\fP=\fInbody-value\fP
Number of bodies for test data, generated only if none of
\fBin\fP, \fBrestart\fP, or \fBcontinue\fP are specified.
Default is \fB128\fP.
.TP
\fBseed\fP=\fIrandom-seed\fP
Random number seed used in generating initial conditions.
Default is \fB123\fP.
.TP
\fBcencon\fP=\fIcencon-flag\fP
If \fBtrue\fP, generate centrally concentrated test system.
Default is \fBfalse\fP.
.TP
\fBfreq\fP=\fIinteg-freq\fP
Inverse time-step, to be used with a leap-frog integrator.
Default is \fB32.0\fP (32 steps per unit time).
.TP
\fBeps\fP=\fIsoft-length\fP
Force softening parameter. If a negative value is given, the potential
is turned into a pseudo-Newtonian one with the meaning of -eps = 3GM/c^2.
Default is \fB0.05\fP.
.TP
\fBoptions\fP=\fIoption-string\fP
Miscellaneous control options, specified as a comma-separated list
of keywords.
Currently recognized keywords are:
\fBreset_time\fP: when reading initial data, set \fItnow\fP to zero;
\fBnew_tout\fP: when restarting, set new output times;
\fBmass\fP, \fBphi\fP, \fBacc\fP: output mass, potential,
acceleration data with major data outputs. The phase space coordinates
are always output.  It also seems that the reset_time and new_tout
options have not been implemented yet.
Default: \fBmass,phase\fP.
.TP
\fBtstop\fP=\fIstop-time\fP
Time to stop integration in N-body model units.
Default is \fB2.0\fP.
.TP
\fBfreqout\fP=\fIout-freq\fP
Frequency of major N-body data outputs.
Default is \fB4.0\fP (4 frames per unit time).
.TP
\fBminor_freqout\fP=\fIout-freq\fP
Frequency of minor diagnostic outputs.
If this frequency is not a simple fraction of \fBfreq\fP (see above),
the program can waiste significant amounts of time.
Default is \fB32.0\fP (32 diagnostic measurements per unit time).
.TP
\fBgravc=\fP
Value for the gravitational constant. Although normally 1 in N-body units
(see also \fIunits(1NEMO)\fP), this allows you to work in more natural units.
[Default: 1]
.SH CAVEATS
Using eps<0 to activate the pseudo-Newtonian option does not change
the units, all units need to be absorbed into eps. For example, for given
eps<0, the precession rate of a planet around a star should then be
\fI2.pi.eps/(a*(1-e^2))\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
newton0(1NEMO), hackcode1(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.ta +1.5i
.nf
src/nbody/evolve/directcode/	source code
.fi
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
17-feb-04	V1.0  code written, cloned off hackcode1	PJT
29-jul-09	V1.2  allow eps<0 for pseudo-Newtonian hack	PJT
30-jul-09	V1.3  added gravc=	PJT
.fi
