.TH DTOS 1NEMO "16 March 2004"
.SH NAME
dtos \- convert STARLAB dyn to NEMO snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdtos\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdtos\fP converts a STARLAB dyn file to a NEMO snapshot file
(see also stod(1NEMO) for the reverse operation  and other information).
A tdyn file needs to be synchronized via \fIworldlines(1STARLAB)\fP before
being converted.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
Output snapshot file in standard \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP
format. Note that the input dyn must be from standard input.
No default.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
Random verbiage added to output.
.TP
\fBoptions=\fP
Optional starlab items to write out. Currently it will write out
all items, even if meaningless. This probably means that 
Aux, Acceleration, Potential and Key could be quite meaningless.
.SH EXAMPLES
Since STARLAB has the restriction that input and output are through
stdin/stdout (cin/cout), the user interface of \fBdtos\fP is not
quite standard NEMO. In the following example a file in dyn
format is converted to snapshot format:
.nf
        dtos out=run1.ss < run1.dyn
.fi
Here is an example of converting a tdyn to a snapshot, spaced at 0.5 intervals

.nf
	worldlines -d 0.1 -b 2.0 < run2.tdyn | dtos out=run2.ss
.fi
.SH BUGS
There are no times associated with the \fIdyn\fP
input stream. A keyword
"times=" should be used to enforce. The \fIhdyn\fP format does
have times.
.SH CAVEATS
Various formats, like tdyn, are not gracefully handled if given directly to
dtos.
.PP
T and L are read into the Potential and Aux slot, where S is read into the 
Key slot.
.SH SEE ALSO
stod(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +1i
src/nbody/io/starlab  	dtos.C, stod_subs.c
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
31-Jul-96	V1.1 doc written	PJT
6-aug-96	V1.1a handle multple snapshots from input	PJT
18-jul-01	V1.2 also output time, improved scanning dyn's to pdyn's PJT
15-oct-03	V1.3 compatible with starlab4, made L/T work	PJT
29-dec-03   	V1.4 output all L/T/S	PJT
16-mar-04	V2.0 added options= and headline=	PJT
.fi
