.TH EAGLESNAP 1NEMO "4 November 2019"
.SH NAME
eaglesnap \- convert EAGLE hdf5 snapshots to NEMO snapshot format
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBeaglesnap\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBeaglesnap\fP converts an HDF5 snapshot from the EAGLE simulation
in a NEMO snapshot format. Various selections are possible: an X,Y,Z region, particle
type (enforced), group and subgroup.
.PP
Currently only mass and phasespace coordinates are converted. This is
still done in code units, in a future option conversion to astrophysical
units will be possible.
.PP
debug=1 will also list the datasets contents of the HDF5 file.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIhdf_file\fP
Input file (HDF5). Only one of the HDF5 parts needs to be given. The
\fIeagle_read\fP access routines
know how to find all of them. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output file, in snapshot format. No default.
.TP
\fBptype=\fP
Which particle type 0-5  (0=gas, 1=DM, 4=star, 5=BH) [0]  
.TP
\fBregion=\fP
Select rectangular region (xmin,xmax,ymin,ymax,zmin,zmax).
If two values are given, they are \fIxmin,xmax\fP and replicated as a cube for Y and Z.
If one value is given, this is \fIxmax\fP, and \fI0,xmax\fP is selected and again replicated
for Y and Z.
[0,10,0,10,0,10]
.TP
\fBgroup=\fP
Select this group (-1 means all,1..NG are validm 2^30 is no group)) [-1] 
.TP
\fBsubgroup=\fP
Select this subgroup (-1 means all, 0..NSG-1 are valid, 2^30 is no subgroup) [-1]
.TP
\fBunits=\fP
Convert to Mpc, Msol, .... - not implemented yet.
.TP
\fBcenter=\fP
If given, it will center the selected particles here (3 values, in code units), meaning
the coordinated will be shifted such that the center will be (0,0,0). 
You will also need to specify a boxsize, since the grid is periodic.
[Default: not used]
.TP
\fBboxsize=\fP
Size of the box if center= is used.  This value is also inside the HDF file, but
not available via \fIread_eagle\fP. Default: not used, required if \fBcenter=\fP is given.
.TP
\fBdm=\fP
A cheat by which the total dark matter (DM) mass can be set. Once eagle_read()
can grab those from the header, this keyword will not be needed anymore
and likely disappear. Current default: 1
.SH EXAMPLES
Assuming you have a username/password for database access, the following commands
show some of the things you can do
.nf
    wget --user=... --ask-password --content-disposition 
        "http://dataweb.cosma.dur.ac.uk:8080/eagle-snapshots//download?run=RefL0012N0188&snapnum=28"
    tar xvf RefL0012N0188_snap_028.tar
    h5dump -n RefL0012N0188/snapshot_028_z000p000/snap_028_z000p000.0.hdf5
    eaglesnap RefL0012N0188/snapshot_028_z000p000/snap_028_z000p000.0.hdf5 snap1  ptype=0 region=2
.fi
Data are taken from a typical co-moving cosmological grid. Objects near the edge, may seem to wind up
in two places, as can be seen in the following example snapshot:
.nf
    eaglesnap RefL0012N0188/snapshot_028_z000p000/snap_028_z000p000.0.hdf5 snap2 0 group=2
    snapplot3 snap2 xrange=-10:10 yrange=-10:10 zrange=-10:10
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
snapshot(5NEMO), eagle(5NEMO)
.nf
http://dataweb.cosma.dur.ac.uk:8080/eagle-snapshots/ - EAGLE snapshots
http://icc.dur.ac.uk/Eagle/index.php - The EAGLE Project
http://icc.dur.ac.uk/Eagle/database.php - EAGLE database access
https://github.com/jchelly/read_eagle - library used
https://kyleaoman.github.io/martini - MARTINI
.fi
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
NEMO/usr/eagle	directory with support to install EAGLE tools
NEMO/src/nbody/io/eaglesnap.c	code for eaglesnap
.fi
.SH EAGLE5
This will be the section for \fIeagle(5NEMO)\fP, but now it's here
.PP
\fBRefL0012N0188\fP is the small volume (12Mpc) reference run. It has 29 slices in z,
ranging from slice 0 at z=20 to slice 28 at z=0.0. Slice 27, the one but most recent
slice, is at z=0.10. The number of particles is (188^3) 6,644,672 per species (gas and DM).
At z=0 one can see 6,381,559 gas, 262380 stars, and 547 BH, this still 186 short, so did some merge?
This means SFE = 4.0%    Each snapshot comes in "nfiles" parts, e.g.
snap_028_z000p000.0.hdf5, snap_028_z000p000.1.hdf5, ... snap_028_z000p000.15.hdf5. The \fIread_eagle\fP
routines will automatically read of all these in order to populate the snapshot correctly.
.PP
Simulations with L=12, 25, 50, 100 co-moving Mpc are available.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
02-Nov-19	V0.1 Created		PJT
.fi
