.TH ELLIPSE 1NEMO "27 August 2003"
.SH NAME
ellipse \- ellipse (de)projection properties
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBellipse\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBellipse\fP de-projects ellipses, and computes the intrinsic properties,
and vice versa. It also computes kinematic properties, assuming flow is
along the ellipses, such as the kinematic minor axis (the major axis
cannot be defined, since the flow-velocity along the ellipse is not
defined with this routine. 
.PP
Apart from giving the eccentricity of the ellipse ("bar") in the disk,
and the inclination of the disk, the two angles in this routine are
\fBtheta\fP and \fBphi\fP, of which only one needs to be given.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBba=\fP
Axis ratio of bar. An array is allowed, in \fInemoinp(1NEMO)\fP 
notation. No default.
.TP
\fBinc=\fP
Inclination of disk in which the ellipse ("bar") is located. 
An array is allowed. No default.
.TP
\fBphi=\fP
Angle between bar and disk in sky plane. An array is allowed.
Either phi or theta (not both) are required. It determines if
projection (\fBtheta\fP given) or deprojection (\fBphi\fP given) 
is done. 
.TP
\fBtheta=\fP
Angle between bar and disk in galax plane. Again an array is allowed.
.TP
\fBa=\fP
Length of the bar (currently only projected) bar. If this option is used,
the stick formulae (ba=0) will be applied, and errors can be computed
using \fBdphi=\fP.
.TP
\fBdba=\fP
Error term in b/a. 
Useful if you want to compute errors in (de)projected
parameters using nsim=
.TP
\fBdphi=\fP
Error term in phi.
.TP
\fBnsim=\fP
Number of monte carlo to perform to compute an error term. [0]
.TP
\fBseed=\fP
Seed for random number generator. [0]
.SH EXAMPLES
Here for a set of apparent position angles w.r.t. line of notes, and given
apparent b/a and inc, the intrinsic b/a, angle between bar and line of nodes
and the (sky plane) kinematic major axis (assumed perpendicular to the 
kinematic minor axis) are computed:
.nf

% ellipse 0.3 45 20:30:2
De-projecting ellipse:
b/a inc phi    b/a'    theta   phi_kin
0.3 45 20    0.376558 29.4085 -46.4712
0.3 45 22    0.368488 31.9773 -45.7525
0.3 45 24    0.360246 34.4675 -44.8267
0.3 45 26    0.351921 36.8805 -43.7464
0.3 45 28    0.343591 39.2183 -42.5507
0.3 45 30    0.335325 41.4834 -41.2693
.fi
.SH CAVEATS
For the stick formulae (a= used) only projection is done.
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
Skillman et al. A&A 198, 33 (1988), p39.
Arnaboldi et al. 1995AJ....110..199A
.fi
.SH FILES
src/orbit/misc	ellipse.c
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
fall-1986	V0.0 formulae derived for Skillman et al paper	PJT
23-Apr-03	V0.3 added phi_kin	PJT 
28-aug-03	V0.4 added a= for stick formulae of bars, +errors	PJT
.fi
