.TH EPIC5 1NEMO "20 April 2021"

.SH "NAME"
epic5 \-  Lindblad orbits in ovally perturbed potentials

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBepic5\fP
.PP
\fBepibin\fP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBepic5\fP computes positions, velocities and densities along closed
orbits of interstellar matter, including frictional forces, in a
galaxy with an arbitrary perturbing potential. Radial velocities are
computed for chosen lines of sight.  These are analytic gas orbits in an
arbitrary rotating galactic potential using the linear epicyclic
approximation.

The direction of rotation is defined according to the sign of the
pattern speed (positive: counter clock wise rotation, negative: clock
wise rotation).

.PP
For theory and description see Per A.B. Lindblad, thesis Stockholm 
Observatory 1996, Chapt. 2.2 and Paper V (Lindblad & Lindblad 1994, 
ASPC 66, p.29), and the "EPIC5 manual".
.PP
\fBepibin\fP ... bins the LOS velocities from EPIRV, but in the EXAMPLES
section below, some NEMO alternatives are given by converting the tables to a
\fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP.


.SH "RUNNING"
Running \fBepic5\fP is very different from running a NEMO \fIkeyword=value\fP
command line program. All input
has to be given interactively from the terminal, and at a number of places
you can re-run an option and stay within the program "looping forever".
The first question will be the name of the input
parameter file. An example, \fBepar\fP is supplied with
the package. Three output files (EPIRV, EPIDEN, EPITEST) need to be present
so the program can write on top. This appears to be a fortran quirck in the
way the program was written.
.PP
\fBParameter file:\fP
Input parameters must be given in a parameter file with the following
content (file names are a string with max 10 characters):
.nf

    Name of file with rotation curve                    ('VFILE') 'vrot'
    Name of file with perturbing potential              ('BFILE') 'perpot'
    Pattern velocity in km/s/kpc                        (OMEGAP)  -18
    Coefficient of friction at 0 kpc                    (BLAMBD0)   7
    Coefficient of friction at RMAX kpc                 (BLAMBDf)   7
    Soft corotation coefficient in km/s/kpc             (EOMEG)     5
    Minimum value for R in the computations in kpc      (R0)        0.01
    Interval of R in the computations in kpc            (DR)        0.5
    Maximum value for R in the computations in kpc      (RMAX)     22
    Number of THETA values (<60) for each R             (NTHETA)   32
.fi

The rotation curve and the perturbing potential are both ascii files,
but in the "annoying" fortran style with wrapped lines that do not
allow to go over 80 (or so) characters. See \fBperpot.py\fP for examples
how to process them.
.PP
The 'VFILE' must have the following format:
.nf
    NFRAD DRFRAD
    FRAD(I), (I=1,NFRAD)
.fi

where NFRAD (<NRAD) is the number of velocities and DRFRAD is the
radial increment between velocities in the rotation curve, and FRAD the 
velocities. The first point, I=1, corresponds to a radius R = 0.
.PP
The 'BFILE' must have the following format:
.nf
    NPER DRP MMAX NTH NC
    AMPC(M), (M=1,10) 
    AMPS(M), (M=1,10)
    for M=1,MMAX:
       CP(I,M) (I=1,NPER)
       SP(I,M) (I=1,NPER)
.fi
.PP
where NPER (<NRAD) is the number of values and DRP the increment 
between values for the perturbing potential. CP(I,M) and SP(I,M)  
are amplitudes of the COS(M*THETA) resp. SIN(M*THETA) components of 
of the Fourier development the perturbing potential. AMPC(M) and 
AMPS(M) are factors with which these amplitudes will be multiplied. 
MMAX (<10) is the maximum M value in the development of the potential. 
NTH (<100) and NC are the number of THETA values and contours for 
potential plotting.
.PP
Positions and densities will be listed in file \fBEPIDEN\fP
and plotted in file \fBdensity.ps\fP.
Positions, x and y velocities will be listed in file \fBEPIRV\fP
and plotted in file \fBvelocity.ps\fP
.PP
Test values are written in file \fBEPITEST\fP.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
With the example epar, vrot and perpot file, here is the kind of dialog you may encounter. Boldface is user input

.nf
% \fBepic5\fP
 Parameter file: 
\fBepar \fP
 ARE PARAMETERS CORRECT ? (y/n):
\fBy\fP
 Perturbing potential ? (y/n) :
\fBy\fP
 SEE THE INPUT PLOTS ? (y/n):
\fBy\fP
 RMAX =   22.0 ? (y/n):
\fBy\fP
 PERTURBING POTENTIAL:
 Graphics device/type (? to see list, default /NULL): 
\fB/xs\fP
 TOTAL POTENTIAL:
 Graphics device/type (? to see list, default /NULL): 
\fB/xs\fP
 REMAINING INPUT PLOTS ? (y/n):
\fBn\fP
 COMPUTE ORBITS ? (y/n):
\fBy\fP
 PRINT THIS PLOT ? (y/n):
\fBy\fP
 CHANGE RMAX (  22.0)? (y/n): 
\fBn\fP
 PLOT DENSITIES ? (y/n):     \fI@todo: user has no idea what units are\fP
\fBy\fP
 NUMBER OF CONTOURS?:
\fB2\fP
 CONTOURS?:
\fB0.1,1\fP
 PLOT DENSITIES WITH PERTURBING POTENTIAL? (y/n):
\fBn\fP
 PLOT DENSITIES ? (y/n):
\fBn\fP
 GIVE POSITION ANGLE OF LINE OF NODES (BAR=90,TO QUIT   WRITE 360 OR MORE):
\fB45\fP
 CONTOUR INTERVAL (KM/S)?:
\fB20\fP
 GIVE POSITION ANGLE OF LINE OF NODES (BAR=90,TO QUIT   WRITE 360 OR MORE):
\fB999\fP

.fi

The \fBperpot\fP file can probably be generated from an N-body snapshot using the
\fIsnapfour(1NEMO)\fP program. Has not been tried.

.PP
THe \fBEPIRV\fP file is a simple list of \fBx,y,vx,vy\fP, in NEMO \fIbodytrans(5NEMO)\fP terms, so
it is straightforward to replace some of the plotting functionality with NEMO tools. Here are
some examples, first converting the table to a snapshot:
.nf
 
   # convert velocities to snapshot
   tabtos EPIRV snap1 block1=x,y,vx,vy

   # make a velocity field
   snaprotate snap1 - 45 x |\\
       snapmap - - xrange=-32:32 yrange=-32:32 evar=vz  svar=1 |\\
       ccdfits - snap1.fits

   # make a global profile
   snaprotate snap1 - 45 x |\\
	snapprint - vx |\\
	tabhist - 1 -320 320 bins=16

   # convert densities to snapshot
   tabtos EPIDEN snap2 block1=x,y,m

   # make a density map
   snapmap snap2 - xrange=-32:32 yrange=-32:32 evar=m svar=1 |\\
       ccdfits - snap2.fits
	
.fi
formally this is not exactly correct, since the velocities are not weighted by their
densities. The two arrays (EPIDEN and EPIRV) are not on the same grid, making the
correct procedure a bit more work for this short example.

.SH "UNITS"
The units here are kpc and km/s. If masses are in units of 1e6 solarmass, G=4.3
See also \fIunits(1NEMO)\fP.

.SH "CAVEATS"
The epic5.pdf manual is not available (yet)
.PP
fortran is an annoying language with the the first columns sometimes just is blank.
This complicated fixed formated reading, which is a bug I had to fix. Version creep?
.PP
There is a unix IRC client with the same name, see \fIepic5(1)\fP. But we were here first, so there.

.SH "FILES"
.nf
.ta +3i
$NEMO/usr/lindblad/epic5	code distribution

epar	input parameter file for \fBepic5\fP
vfile		rotation curve (1st filename in epar) ("vrot")
bfile		perturbing potential file (2nd filename in epar) ("perpot")
EPIRV		written (23) - but must exist to bootstrap
EPIDEN		written (22) - but must exist to bootstrap
EPITEST		written (25) - but must exist to bootstrap
density.ps	pgplot file produced by \fBepic5\fP
velocity.ps	pgplot file produced by \fBepic5\fP
orbits.ps	pgplot file produced by \fBepic5\fP

histogram.ps	produced by \fBepibin\fP
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
tabplot(1NEMO), tabtos(1NEMO), tabhist(1NEMO), snapprint(1NEMO), snapplot(1NEMO),  snapfour(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.PP
https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1994ASPC...66...29L/abstract -
\fIKinematics of Interstellar Matter in a Barred Potential in the Epicyclic Approximation\fP
(EPIC V1)
.PP
https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012MNRAS.421.1089P/abstract - 
\fIAnalytic gas orbits in an arbitrary rotating galactic potential using the linear epicyclic approximation\fP
(EPIC V5)
.PP
https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2013PhDT.........5P/abstract -
\fIRearrangement of gas in disc galaxies\fP,
Thesis Pinol-Ferrer
.SH "ADS"
@ads 2012MNRAS.421.1089P

.SH "AUTHOR"
Per A.B. Lindblad, Per Olaf Lindblad (1993), +Nuria, +Kambiz (2012 adaptations), +Peter (2021 distribution)

.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
11-aug-1993	First version (P.O. Lindblad & P.A.B. Lindblad)
2011-2012	Modification by P.O. Lindblad, N. Pinol-Ferrer and K Fathi (see source code)
apr-2021	Adapted for NEMO	PJT
.fi
