.TH FIRSTN 1NEMO "9 March 2004"
.SH NAME
firstn - von Hoerners first N-body code
.SH SYNOPSIS
firstn < firstn.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
Arguably the first N-body code was written by von Hoerner (1960). This version,
\fBfirstn\fP, currently only integrates an example internally-generated Plummer
sphere, and was written by S. Aarseth.
.SH INPUT 
The \fBfirstn.in\fP input file contains 3 lines (See also \fInbody0(1NEMO)\fP).
.nf
N ETA EPS DELTAT TCRIT
ALPHAS BODY1 BODYN KZ5
Q, ISCALE
.fi
.TP 25
N - number of particles.
.TP
ETA - integration accuracy
.TP
EPS - gravitational softening (note vH used no softening)
.TP
DELTAT - time interval of data output.
.TP
TCRIT - final integration time
.TP
ALPHAS - slope of the IMF
.TP
BODY1 - lower cutoff in IMF
.TP
BODYN - upper cutoff in IMF
.TP
KZ5 - control parameter what kind of input data are generated.
.TP
Q - Initial virial ratio (1  meant 2T/W=1)
.TP
ISCALE - 
.SH PERFORMANCE
CPU should  scale as N^2. Here are some numbers 
.nf
.ta +1i +1i +1i
N	cpu"	cpu"
	?	p4/1600/gcc	ifort

16	2.9	2.2	0.79
32	62.0	33.2	19.0
64	93.4	27.8	84.2
128	642.6	108.4	75.1
256	n/a	834.3	746.5
.fi
.SH CAVEATS
This historic code is meant to be educational.
.SH AUTHOR
S. von Hoerner (original), Sverre Aarseth (21st century adaptation)
.nf
Z.f.Astrophys. 50, 184, 1960 (1960ZA.....50..184V)
Z.f.Astrophys. 57, 47, 1963 
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.6i
~/usr/aarseth/firstn	original
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
nbody0(1NEMO)
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
dec-2000	version from Aarseth			       	PJT
9-mar-04	man page written 				PJT
.fi
