.TH FITSCCD 1NEMO "23 November 2004"
.SH NAME
fitsccd \- read a (fits) image file from disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBfitsccd in=\fPimage \fBout=\fPfits [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfitsccd\fP reads a (fits) image file from disk. The input is normally in 
\fIfits(5NEMO)\fP format, although certain foreign data formats can 
also be read in a limited form of \fIraw\fP mode
(see \fBFOREIGN FORMATS\fP below). This effectively
allows you to read formats such as MIRIAD, GIPSY, IRAF, ZODIAC and AIPS data, 
given the right parameters... The output will always be in 
standard \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format. Typicall you will need the
keywords \fBbitpix=\fP,\fBoffset=\fP and \fBnaxis=\fP.
.PP
See old notes in \fIccdfits(1NEMO)\fP how to process fits files from
tape instead disk.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIfits-file\fP
input file, must be \fIfits(5)\fP format unless \fBmode=raw\fP (see below)
[no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIimage-file\fP
output file, will be in \fIimage(5)\fP format [no default].
.TP
\fBplanes=\fIp1,p2..\fP
List of planes to be read from the fits file in case a cube was
processed. If no list supplied, all are used. Planes count
from 0 upwards. 
[Default: all].
.TP
\fBblocking=\fIfactor\fP
Integer that denotes the blocking factor with which file was written.
It is the multiple of blocks of 2880 bytes.
[default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBmode=\fImode\fP
Format mode of input file. Choises are \fIfits\fP and \fIraw\fP. In raw
mode various relevant header parameters must be given using remaining
keywords listed below. All keyword following this one are only
effective in \fIraw\fP mode.
[Default: \fBfits\fP].
.TP
\fBblocksize=\fIblocksize\fP
Basic blocksize of a raw input file. The actual blocksize applied
includes padding, and is hence \fIblocksize*blocking\fP. 
It is only used in \fIraw\fP mode.
[default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBoffset=\fIoffset\fP
Byte offset where the data starts in the file. 
It is only used in \fIraw\fP mode.
[Default: \fB0\fP]
.TP
\fBbitpix=\fIbitpix\fP
FITS Bitpix used in conversion. Allowed are 16, 32 and -32, denoting
16 and 32 bit integers, and 32 bit IEEE floating point resp.
It is only used in \fIraw\fP mode.
[Default \fB-32\fP].
.TP
\fBnaxis=\fInz,ny,nz\fP
Size of all relevant axes in the data-"cube".
It is only used in \fIraw\fP mode.
No default!
.TP
\fBcdelt=\fIr1,r2,r3\fP
Pixel separation.
It is only used in \fIraw\fP mode.
[Default: \fI2/nx,2/ny,2/nz\fP]
.TP
\fBcrpix=\fIr1,r2,r3\fP
Reference pixel.
It is only used in \fIraw\fP mode.
[Default: \fB0,0,0\fP].
.TP
\fBcrval=\fIr1,r2,r3\fP
Value at reference pixel.
It is only used in \fIraw\fP mode.
[Default: \fB0,0,0\fP].
.TP
\fBbscale=\fIbscale\fP
Scaling constant from raw data to internal data.
It is only used in \fIraw\fP mode.
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBbzero=\fIbzero\fP
Offset constant from raw data to internal data.
It is only used in \fIraw\fP mode.
[Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBblank=\fPblank_value\fP
If a magic value from the input dataset needs to be 
replaced in the output image, give that value here.
It is not yet possible to use the FITS \fBBLANK\fP keyword
for this.
[Default: not used].
.TP
\fBrelcoords=f|t\fP
Use relative coordinates instead of absolute coordinates? 
[false]
.TP
\fBaxistype=0|1\fP
Old style (0) or new style with crpix-type header information (1) passed
through. Default: 0
.SH FOREIGN FORMATS
An \fIAIPS\fP dataset...
.PP
An \fIIRAF\fP dataset...
.PP
A \fIGIPSY\fP dataset uses offset=0 and bitpix=-32. Dataset name 
normally has extension ".IMAGE". Use the GIPSY 
program \fIgds\fP or \fIheader\fP
to find out relevant header parameters.
.nf
    % \fBfitsccd in=10.IMAGE out=10.ccd mode=raw offset=0 bitpix=-32 ...\fP
.fi
.PP
A \fIMIRIAD\fP dataset is converted using an offset of
4 bytes and bitpix of -32 into the \fIdataset/image\fP file.
Various header parameters must be retrieved from the 
header using the Miriad program \fIitemize\fP:
.nf
    % \fBfitsccd in=dat.mir/image out=dat.ccd mode=raw offset=4 bitpix=-32 ...\fP
.fi
.PP
A \fIZODIAC\fP dataset uses offset=0 and bitpix=-32. Dataset names
are preceded with an underscore. For a zodiac image with 
.nf
    % \fBfitsccd in=_zim out=zim.ccd mode=raw offset=0 bitpix=-32 ...\fP
.fi
.SH "CAVEATS"
There are FITS image files stored as extensions to a dummy HDU. In those
cases \fIscanfits(1NEMO)\fP must be used to extract the correct HDU and
continue the data analysis, e.g.
.nf
    % scanfits abc.fits abc1.fits hdu=2
    % ccdfits abc1.fits abc1.ccd
.fi
Note that FITS files in NEMO do now allow the use of pipes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccdfits(1NEMO), snapccd(1NEMO), iofits(1NEMO), scanfits(1NEMO), image(5NEMO), fits(5NEMO), dd(1)
.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben
.SH "FILES"
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/image/fits  	fitsccd.c fitsccd.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
7-mar-90	V1.0 Written	PJT
1-oct-90	V3.0 New fitsio routines from Sault	PJT
11-oct-90	V3.1 Added 'raw' mode  	PJT
10-sep-91	V3.3 Added blank= keyword, more doc  	PJT
18-may-99	V3.6 added support to read CD_i_j based files	PJT
21-mar-00	V3.6a fixed offset bug for raw cubes	PJT
7-nov-00	V3.7 added relcoords=	PJT
23-nov-04	V4.9 added axistype=  for new image format PJT
.fi
