.TH FITSTAB 1NEMO "10 November 2005"
.SH NAME
fitstab \- convert fits table to ascii table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBfitstab in=\fPfits_table [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfitstab\fP reads a fits table file from disk and converts it to
an ascii table. The input file must be in \fIfits(5NEMO)\fP format,  
the output will be on \fIstdout\fP. Tables can be selected by their
HDU number; HDU's which do not have the ascii table extension (TABLE) 
are automatically skipped.
.PP
See notes in \fIccdfits(1NEMO)\fP how to process fits files from
tape instead disk.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIfits-file\fP
input file, must be \fIfits(5)\fP format. 
[no default].
.TP
\fBhdu=\fInumber\fP
HDU number to be processed. The first one counts as 1. A 0 will
convert all. 
HDU's which do not have the table extension 
(\fBXTENSION='TABLE     '\fP) are automatically skipped.
[Default: 0].
.TP
\fBselect=\fP
Comma separated list of 
selections which determines the parts of the table that is output.
Valid options are \fBdata\fP, \fBheader\fP and \fBrow\fP:
\fBdata\fP will list the table data itself, with an added
row number if the option \fBrow\fP is also supplied, and
\fBheader\fP lists the column names and their attributes from
the FITS header. The parameters from a random group HDU can also
be printed using \fBgroup\fP.
[Default: \fBdata\fP].
.TP
\fBcol=\fIcolumn_names\fP
Column (or random group parameter)
names selected for output. Default is all columns, in the original
format (no extra blanks). If columns are selected by their name
(FITS keyword \fBTTYPE\fPn), the output
will contains an extra blank inbetween columns, UNLESS that column was
followed by a \fB+\fP sign, for example \fBcol=DecSign+DecD\fP will not
put an extra space between \fBDecSign\fP and \fBDecD\fP. \fI*** this last
item not implemented yet ***\fP
[Default: all].
.TP
\fBfnl=\fP
Frequency of newlines in the output, meaning every \fBfnl\fP numbers that
are written, a newline will be added to the output.  Use 0 if no extra
newlines are needed.
[Default: 0]
.SH BUGS
Columns are output in the order that they appear in the table, not
as specified with the \fBcol=\fP keyword.
.PP
no magic blanking substitution, no scaling TSCALnnn, TZEROnnn ?
.PP
column names are treated case sensitive. 
.PP
X format not understood yet
.SH EXAMPLES
Show the random group parameters of the first 4 record:
.nf
% fitstab sim0.fts hdu=1 row=1:4 select=group,data
Working on FITS file 1
Random Group printing:
RANDOM GROUP: 4950 rows with 10 (4-byte) length each; 7 pars
# UU VV WW DATE DATE BASELINE FREQSEL Data(1..)
 -8.12176e-07 1.32065e-07 0 2.47447e+06 0.572593 258 1 858.081 199.085 7.5
 5.68985e-08 -4.70039e-07 0 2.47447e+06 0.572593 259 1 1251.84 -22.7329 7.5
 -3.45473e-07 6.32915e-07 0 2.47447e+06 0.572593 260 1 893.396 27.1245 7.5
 -8.36404e-07 -5.8816e-07 0 2.47447e+06 0.572593 261 1 518.19 129.551 7.5
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccdfits(1NEMO), fits(5NEMO), dd(1), FTB (\fIADC Fits Table Browser\fP)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/image/fits  	fitstab.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
8-apr-92	V1.0 Written	PJT
13-apr-92	V1.0x Renamed file= to hdu=	PJT
30-sep-96	V1.3 added output of random group parameters	PJT
10-nov-05	V1.5 added fnl=	PJT
.fi

