.TH FITSTIFF 1NEMO "24 May 1995"
.SH NAME
fitstiff \- convert FITS file into TIFF file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfitstiff\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIfitstiff\fP converts a \fIfits(5NEMO)\fP into a \fItiff\fP file.
The data are scaled between 0 and 255 as a 8 bit image.
.PP
In principle multiple image planes can be stored in a single
\fItiff\fP file (but the author doesn't know how to do it yet).
.PP
Although by default there is no colormap written, and the image
is really a 8-bit greyscale, a colormap can be defined from a 256-entry
ascii RGB table, of which examples can be found in $NEMODAT/lut.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIfits_file\fP
Input fits file. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fItiff_file\fP
Output tiff file. No default.
.TP
\fBplanes=\fP\fIp1,p2,...\fP
Planes to select from fits cube [all] 
Plane numbers run from 1 to the length of the 3rd axis of the cube.
.TP
\fBdatamin=\fP
Min, if to override FITS header value 'DATAMIN'. 
By default the FITS reader tries to be smart and searches the FITS
header for what the datamin should be.
.TP
\fBdatamax=\fP
Max, if to override FITS header value 'DATAMAX'. See comments above.
.TP
\fBlut=\fP\fIname\fB[.lut]\fP
Name of colormap. This may be a full filename, or it's basename
where a searchpath \fB".:$NEMODAT/lut"\fP will be tried to 
find the LUT table file. A default extension \fB".lut"\fP is assumed.
Default: no colortable, the output TIFF file will be a greyscale map.
.TP
\fBcompress=t|f\fP
Turn LZW compresssion on? [Default: \fBt\fP].
.SH TIFF CLASSES
\fIfitstiff\fP does not support all known
TIFF Classes:
.TP
Class B 
for bilevel (1-bit) images. Not supported.
.TP
Class G 
for grayscale images. This is the default.
.TP
Class P 
for palette color images. Only used when a RGB look-up table is 
supplied (see \fBlut=\fP).
.TP
Class R 
for RGB full color images. Not supported.
.TP
Class F
For Faxes. Not supported.
.SH LIMITATIONS
The datamin/max is only attempted to be retrieved from the FITS
header, if not given as an explicit parameter to the program. The
data is not scanned.
.SH EXAMPLES
After a \fItiff\fP file has been constructed, it can be previewed in
a number of ways:
.PP
If your system manager has installed \fIxtiff\fP, it's straightforward:
.nf
	\fBxtiff\fP \fItiff_file\fP
.fi
.PP
If Jef Poskanzer's PBM package has been installed, the following may also work:
.nf
	\fBtifftopnm <\fP \fItiff_file\fP \fB| pnmtoxwd | xwud\fP
.fi
The public domain package \fIlibtiff(3)\fP contains a number of utilities
to operate on TIFF files, and the SDSC program \fIimconv(1)\fP converts
TIFF to a variety of other formats.
.SH SEE ALSO
xtiff(1), fits(5NEMO), tiffinfo(1), libtiff(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
$NEMODAT/lut	directory of ascii RGB look-up tables
.fi
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
xx-nov-91	V0 Created - never used though	PJT
15-nov-92	V0.1 smart autoscaling   	PJT
25-may-95	V0.2 added compress=, fixed bug due to new fitsio	PJT
.fi
