.TH FITSHEAD 1NEMO "6 October 2011"
.SH NAME
fitshead \- dump the header of a fits file, or convert ascii to fits header
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBfitshead in=\fPfits_file  [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIfitshead\fP reads FITS file(s) from disk and dumps the
headers. Since \fIfits(3NEMO)\fP routines are
used, various FITS (mis)interpretations may be reported. Try using 
\fIscanfits(1NEMO)\fP if really stuck.
.PP
FITS Header-Data Unit's (HDU) can be extracted individually by
using the \fIhdu=\fP keyword.
.PP
Since fitshead can only process disk FITS files, FITS files on
tape have to be extracted from tape using \fIdd(1)\fP or
similar programs. See also notes in \fIccdfits(1NEMO)\fP how 
to process fits files from tape.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is 
also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIinput_file\fP
An input file. It can either be a fits file, or, if \fBout=\fP is also
specified, a regular ascii file which is assumed to be in 
fits-header format. If the input file is in fits format, it may contain
several HDU's, and the \fBhdu=\fP keyword can be used to make 
sub-selections.
[no default]. 
.TP
\fBhdu=\fIinteger_list\fP
List of file numbers of the FITS file that need to be worked
on. For now each Header+Data counts as a FITS file,
which is not perhaps meant to be its true meaning. 
Extensions would be counted as a separate FITS file:
in such cases \fBfile=1,2\fP would
have to be supplied to copy both the primary HDU and its
first extension. Using a value of 0 will cause all FITS files
to be read. [default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBblocking=\fIfactor\fP
Positive integer that denotes the blocking factor with which the input 
file was written. It is the multiple of blocks of 2880 bytes.
The FITS standard allows the blocking factor to be from 1 to 10.
[default: \fB1\fP]. \fINot supported yet\fP
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Optional output if conversion from ascii text to FITS header format
is needed. If given, the input file should must be an ascii file,
and not contain strange control characters. (a NULL can trigger
erroneous conversions). However, no
checking is done if the input file is properly 
formatted (see fits(5NEMO)).
.TP
\fBcounter=t|f\P
Add line counter to output?   Not used yet.
.SH EXAMPLE
Consider fixing the CTYPE1 and CTYPE2 keywords of a large number of
FITS files from 'LL','MM' to 'RA---TAN','DEC--TAN':
.nf
    % fitshead map1.fits | grep -i ctype > ctype.fix
    % $EDITOR ctype.fix
    % foreach f (*.fits)
        scanfits $f $f.new delete=CTYPE1,CTYPE2 fix=ctype.fix
      end
.fi
.PP
Generic editing of a FITS header can be done in the following way
(assuming there is only one HDU in the FITS file):
.nf 
    % fitshead map1.fits > map1.txt
    % $EDITOR map1.txt
    % fitshead map1.txt out=map1.head
    % scanfits map1.fits map1.data select=data
    % cat map1.head map1.data > map2.fits
.fi
.PP
The unix command \fIfold(1)\fP can also - with some limitations - be used to view
a FITS header by specifying the width to be 80 characters, viz.
.nf
    % fold -80 map1.fits | more
.fi
equally so, \fIdd(1)\fP:
.nf
    % dd cbs=80 conv=unblock in=map1.fits | more
.fi
Stripping trailing white space is sometimes needed to compare fits headers with the \fIdiff(1)\fP
program:
.nf
    % fitshead ngc6503.fits | sed 's/ *$//' > ngc6503.fitshead
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
scanfits(1NEMO), fits(5NEMO), dd(1), fold(1), diff(1), sed(1)
.PP
\fBfitsheader\fP is a popular program in many packages, e.g. in astropy-utils
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/image/fits         fitshead.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
12-apr-91	V1.0 Written, cloned off scanfits - and docced    	PJT
13-apr-92	V1.1 Renamed file= to hdu=                       	PJT
13-apr-94	V1.2a added out= to convert ascii to fits header	PJT
23-may-95	V1.2b fixed bug in conversion to header format      	PJT
6-oct-11	V1.3b fixed bug for large files				PJT
.fi
