.TH FITSGRID 1NEMO "16 August 1993"
.SH NAME
fitsgrid \- convert fits binary table to regular fits image by gridding
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfitsgrid\fP [parameter=value] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfitsgrid\fP grids a FITS binary table into a FITS image. Currently
the program can only handle a DIRBE bintable, from the COBE
database (released: august 1993). Future versions will be more
flexible in selecting which columns to use for gridding, and 
which for emission, much like \fIsnapgrid(1NEMO)\fP. A new package
\fIfitstrans\fP, modeled after \fIbodytrans\fP. must be written for
this. Work is in progress.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIbintable\fP
Input fits table file. The \fIfits(3NEMO)\fP package is used to read
the binary table.
No default.
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP\fIimage\fP
Output fits image. The \fIfitsio(3NEMO)\fP package is used to write
the image. 
No default.
.TP 20
\fBlong=\fP\fIlmin,lmax\fP
Range in (galactic) longitudes. Note that \fIlmin\fP is normally
larger than \fIlmax\fP. Although longitudes are in the range 0..360,
when the sign of \fIlmin\fP and \fIlmax\fP are
different (i.e. the galactic center is in the middle), angles are
reduced to -180..180. Note that \fIlmin,lmax\fP are the edges of
the grid, and that the pixels coordinates are defined in the center
of a pixel. Your FITS header for \fBCRPIX1\fP may hence look odd.
[Default: \fB180,-180\fP].
.TP 20
\fBlat=\fP\fIlmin,lmax\fP
Range in (galactic) latitudes    .
[Default: \fB -15,15\fP].
.TP 20
\fBnlong=\fP
Number of pixels in longitude   
[Default: \fB360\fP].
.TP 20
\fBnlat=\fP
Number of pixels in latitude   
[Default: \fB30\fP].
.TP 20
\fBband=\fP
DIRBE Band to process. Valid bands are numbered 1 through 10.
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH SEE ALSO
scanfits(1NEMO), fitshead(1NEMO), fits(3NEMO), fitsio(3NEMO), fits(5NEMO)
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
13-Aug-93	V1.0 Created    	PJT
.fi
