.TH FITSGLUE 1NEMO "3 September 2002"
.SH NAME
fitsglue \- catenate fits images into a fitscube
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfitsglue\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfitsglue\fP catenates a number of fits files (usually planes)
together in a fits cube. It only works for FITS primary header
images. It also had rudimentary options to attempt to fix up the
WCS of the new fits cube.
.PP
If you need to catenate the images in the spatial (1st or 2nd dimension)
plane, use \fIccdmos(1NEMO)\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input fits files. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output fits file.
.TP
\fBmultiple=\fP
Check for multiple fits files on input? 
Default: t
.TP
\fBnaxis3=\fP
Preset NAXIS3 here, or let program scan first. Setting this parameter
to 0 will cause it to scan the files first.
Default: 0
.TP
\fBcompact=\fP
Compact (move) dummy axes to the end 
Default: f
.TP
\fBinlist=\fP
Optional list of integers, which if properly used with a template filename
in \fBin=\fP can be used to process a large number of input files. This
is needed if the shell doesn't allow you to build large strings that
may be needed to pass to \fIin=\fP. Default: not used.
.TP
\fBwcs=t|f\fP
Attempt to add a more decent WCS (first FITS file) to the output cube
Default: f.
.SH EXAMPLE
Catenating three fitsfiles map001.fits, map002.fits and map003.fits can be
done in two ways:
.nf

    % fitsglue in=map001.fits,map002.fits,map003.fits out=cube.fits
    % fitsglue in=map%03d.fits out=cube.fits inlist=1:3

.fi
where the compact second form can be useful if the string length becomes
too long for a shell to handle, or too impractical to type.
Notice that the \fBin=\fP keyword does
not directly support the usual unix wildcard, although an extra pass
with sed may be used:
.nf

    % set in=`echo map*.fits | sed 's/\ /,/g'`
    % fitsglue in=$in out=cube.fits
.fi
You can also use NEMO's macro substitution (see also getparam(3NEMO)):
.nf
    % ls map*.fits > input_files
    % fitsglue in=@input_file out=cube.fits
.fi
.SH BUGS
Header of the resulting cube is quite bare, and the DATAMIN/MAX are probably
wrong.
.PP
Size of resulting data is not filled to multiple 2880 boundary
.SH SEE ALSO
fits(5NEMO), getparam(3NEMO), ccdfits(1NEMO), fitsccd(1NEMO), ccdmos(1NEMO), ccdmerge(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
28-Aug-96	man page written	PJT
24-feb-98	1.2 added inlist= to process many planes	PJT
20-jun-01	1.3 removed blocking=	PJT
10-aug-02	1.4 added wcs=	PJT
3-oct-02	1.4a flushed 0s to fill to multiple of 2880	PJT
.fi
