.TH g2s 1falcON "16 Feb 2007"

.SH name
\fBg2s\fP \- converts gadget to nemo snapshot file(s) using falcON

.SH synopsis
\fBgagdet2nemo\fP [parameter=value]

.SH requirement
requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher, see
http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo.

.SH description
\fBg2s\fP tries to read gadget snapshots (gadget data
format 1) and write them into a single nemo snapshot file. If the
input has been different endianess than the local machine, the
data are converted on the fly.

.SH parameters

.TP 12
\fBin=\fP\fIfbase\fP
Gives the base file name for gadget snapshot data files. Default:
\fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIfile\fP
File name for writing data in nemo snapshot format. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBnshot=\fP\fIval\fP
Number of snapshots to be converted. If \fBnshot\fP>1, we assume that
there are snapshots \fIfbase\fP\fBXXX\fP with \fBXXX\fP running from
\fBfirst\fP to \fBnshot\fP-\fBfirst\fP+1. Otherwisw (if
\fBnshot\fP==1), we assume the snapshot \fIfbase\fP to exists. Note
that each snapshot can be distributed over several files, e.g. the 4th
snapshot may be in 8 files "\fIfbase\fP004.0" to "\fIfbase\fP004.7".
Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBcopy=\fP\fIIOstring\fP
Specifies which data are copied to the nemo snapshot file (and hence are
assumed present in the gadget data files).

We assume that the gadget file contains the following data in this
order: positions, velocities, keys (ids), masses (if not specified via
the header), internal gas energies, gas densities, gas smoothing
lengths, potentials, and accelerations. We stop reading the gadget
data file once all data to be copied have been read (or the end of the
file has been reached). Note that the first five are guaranteed to be
always present. Default: \fBmxvU\fP.
.TP
\fBfirst=\fP\fIval\fP
If \fBnshot\fP>1, we assume the first snapshot to be converted to have index
\fIval\fP. So, if e.g.\ \fBfirst\fP=4 and \fBnshot\fP=5, we seek to 
read snapshots "\fIfbase\fP004" to "\fIfbase\fP008". Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBheader=\fP\fIval\fP
Size (in bytes) of the FORTRAN record header used when the gadget data
files have been written. This is usually 4, but on some 64bit machines it
may be 8. Using a wrong value is likely to result in a fatal error with
a completely misguiding error message. Default: \fB4\fP.

.SH limitations
Gadget is a massively parallel code and a single gadget snapshot distributed
over several files may contain more data than can be hold in memory on just
one node. Such snapshots cannot presently converted; the code is likely to
crash when trying to grab too much memory.

.SH see also
s2g(1falcON)
.PP

.fi
.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf               \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP.
.fi
.SH author
Walter Dehnen   walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
16-Feb-2007	first version of manual  WD
.fi


