.TH GADGET 1NEMO "14 February 2020"
.SH NAME
gadget \-  parallelized cosmological treecode with SPH (version 2)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBGadget2 param-file\fP 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgadget\fP is a freely available code for cosmological N-body/SPH
simulations on massively parallel computers with distributed
memory. GADGET uses an explicit communication model that is
implemented with the standardized MPI communication interface. The
code can be run on essentially all supercomputer systems presently in
use, including clusters of workstations or individual PCs.
.PP
\fBgadget\fP computes gravitational forces with a hierarchical tree
algorithm (optionally in combination with a particle-mesh scheme for
long-range gravitational forces) and represents fluids by means of
smoothed particle hydrodynamics (SPH). The code can be used for
studies of isolated systems, or for simulations that include the
cosmological expansion of space, both with or without periodic
boundary conditions. In all these types of simulations, GADGET follows
the evolution of a self-gravitating collisionless N-body system, and
allows gas dynamics to be optionally included. Both the force
computation and the time stepping of GADGET are fully adaptive, with a
dynamic range which is, in principle, unlimited.
.PP
\fBgadget\fP can therefore be used to address a wide array of astrophysically
interesting problems, ranging from colliding and merging galaxies, to
the formation of large-scale structure in the Universe. With the
inclusion of additional physical processes such as radiative cooling
and heating, GADGET can also be used to study the dynamics of the
gaseous intergalactic medium, or to address star formation and its
regulation by feedback processes.
.SH GRAPE
There have also been older versions of the code that supported the
special-purpose hardware GRAPE, in the form of GRAPE-3 and
GRAPE-6. However, this functionality is not included in the current
version at the moment.
.SH COMPILATION
Within NEMO there is a shell script $NEMO/src/scripts/gadget.install
that helps installing the package. It needs a small set of libraries
pre-installed, which this scripts takes care of. By using the keyword
\fBprefix=$NEMO\fP it can be made to fit within the NEMO environment.
.PP
An updated (2020) version uses the \fImknemo(1NEMO)\fP command
.PP
Note that for each style of gadget a special Makefile is used to
compile this executable. Examples can be found in
Gadget-2.0/Gadget2/parameterfiles/
.PP
There is no \fBrungadget\fP NEMO front-end for this complex program (yet). 
It is left as an excersize for the writer.
.SH BENCHMARKS
The benchmark we use can be found in the before mentioned gadget.install
script, and runs a galaxy-galaxy N=60,000 collision:
.nf
  % time mpirun -np 1 Gadget2/Gadget2 Gadget2/parameterfiles/galaxy.param > galaxy.log

   AMD64/3200:           2126.093u 2.983s 35:29.48 99.9%
                         3294.859u 7.763s 55:10.38 99.7%   ???
   np=1 0.000u 0.000s 55:04.35 0.0%     0+0k 0+0io 0pf+0w
   np=2 0.000u 0.002s 36:44.69 0.0%     0+0k 0+0io 0pf+0w
   np=4 0.000u 0.002s 39:18.13 0.0%     0+0k 0+0io 0pf+0w
   AMD Opteron 246/2000  2160.138u 2.687s 36:02.81 100.0%
   P4/3300 desktop:   about 1h18m/2 = 78/2 = 2340" ?
   P4/1600 laptop:    about 4h35m           16508"
   P4/64/3000            3292.062u 7.109s 55:05.93 99.7%
   G5/1600               4263.6u  51.5s 1:19:07.64 90.8%
.fi
.SH FILES
NEMO/usr/gadget - placeholder for install and benchmarks
.SH SEE ALSO
snapgadget(1NEMO), gadgetsnap(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.PP
.nf
http://www.mpa-garching.mpg.de/gadget/
Springel V. (2005MNRAS.364.1105S) - \fI The cosmological simulation code GADGET-2\fP (\fBgadget2-paper.pdf\fP)
Springel V. May 1, 2005  - \fI User Guide for GADGET-2\fP (\fBusers-guide.pdf\fP).
Springel V., Yoshida N., White S. D. M., 2001, New Astronomy, 6, 51 
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Volker Springel
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
15-mar-2000	V1.0 original fortran version released (Y2K compliant!)
1-may-2005	V2.0 rewritten in C++
17-mar-2006	a first document in NEMO
14-feb-2020	some notes after mknemo install option
.fi
