.TH GALAXY1 1NEMO "24 June 1997"
.SH NAME
galaxy \-  3D FFT N-body code
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgalaxy\fP 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIgalaxy\fP 
is a direct descendant of the code first used by James & Sellwood (1978, MNRAS
v182, p331) with only minor refinements since.  The Poisson solver was
written exclusively by Richard James and uses the algorithm descibed in
James (1977, J Comp Phys v25, p71).  This algorithm determines the
gravitational potential of an isolated mass distribution using FFTs on a
3-D Cartesian grid without the need to remove images by doubling the grid
size in each dimension.  The motion of particles within the grid volume is
integrated forwards in time according to accelerations determined by
differencing the grid potential values.  Particles that leave the grid
volume are discarded.
.PP
Very large numbers of particles can be employed at little cost since most cpu
time is taken up by the determination of the potential on the grid.  [See
Sellwood (1997, in "Computational Astrophysics" ed Clarke & West, ASP Conf
series v123, p215) for a performance comparison with other codes.]
.PP
The version of the algorithm used here requires the individual grid cells to
be cubic, but the overall grid need not be cubic.  The FFTs supplied require
the number of mesh spaces in each direction to be (2**n + 1), where the
exponent n may be chosen independently for each coordinate direction.  As
large grids require a great deal of memory (c400 MB for a 257**3 grid), it
is recommended that the parameters set in the include file '\fBrjinclude.h\fP'
be no larger than necessary, although the code will function correctly as long
as the actual dimensions used do not exceed those set by the parameter
statement at compile time.
.PP
Time integration follows the standard 2nd order time-centered leap-frog, with
the velocities one half a time step out of synchrony with positions.  This
difference is maintained in the internally stored coordinates and is created
and can be undone, by a call to subroutine TMCENT.  For output of the particle
coordinates at a particular instant, the velocities need to be the average of
those before and after the time for the positions.
.PP
Results, in this public version, are simply the phase space coordinates of
all the particles as often as requested, which can create a very large file.
The authors therefore do not employ this scheme themselves, preferring
instead to measure and save properties of the model as the simulation
evolves.
An example of this "on the fly" analysis is provided
in the routines ICHECK and MEASURE
to determine the global integrals (energy, momentum, etc)
.PP
The grid is set up in subroutine GRDSET using parameters
read in from a short ASCII input file (\fIgalaxy.dat\fP).
The positions and velocities of the particles are read in subroutine LOADUP,
from a local file \fIgalaxy.ini\fP.
The gravitational field is determined by a call to FINDF.
The model is integrated forward by a call to STEP.
After the desired evolution is completed, the positions and velocities of
the particles are saved by a call to UNLOAD.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
$NEMO/src/nbody/evolve/sellwood  	source code tree (w/ res2snap & snap2ini)
.fi
The main files associated with the run are (notice the basename 'galaxy' is fixed by the code):
.nf
.ta +2i
galaxy.dat	ASCII input: grid parameters, length and time scales
galaxy.ini	ASCII input: initial coordinates of all the particles
galaxy.lis	ASCII output: a brief summary of progress (appended)
galaxy.fin	ASCII output: final coordinates of all the particles
galaxy.res	binary output: coordinates and potentials at intervals  (appended)
galaxy.tmp	short ASCII file (deleted when closed)
galaxy.aux	large binary file (deleted when closed)
.fi
.PP
Sample \fIgalaxy.dat\fP initialization file:
.nf
 33  33  33    # number of grid cells in (x,y,z)
 15.0          # number of grid cells per length unit
 0.05          # time step length
 0.5           # time between particle outputs
 0.1           # time between integral checks
 1.00          # end time
.fi
.PP
The format of the ASCII \fIgalaxy.ini\fP (and also \fIgalaxy.fin\fP) files
is:
.nf
    Time Mass Nbody
    X_1 Y_1 Z_1 VX_1 VY_1 VZ_1
    ....
    X_n Y_n Z_n VX_n VY_n VZ_n
.fi
The \fIgalaxy.fin\fP can also be used for a restart. Note that the timestep
is one more then the last requested time, to prevent that the 
\fIgalaxy.res\fP file will contain a datadump on the restart timestep twice.
.SH COMPILATION
Note that the maximum grid size and maximum amount of particles are hardcoded
during compilation. See comments in \fBrjinclude.h\fP how to change the
maximum grid size and the parameter \fBmbod\fP in
\fBgalaxy.f\fP for the maximum particle number that can be used.
.SH RES2SNAP
The following shell script, given as an example, will convert a particular
snapshot from a binary "galaxy.res" file into a NEMO \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP
format.
.PP
.nf
#! /bin/csh -f
if ($#argv != 2) then
  echo Usage: res2snap FILE N
  echo Converts the N-th snapshot from FILE to NEMOs snapshot format
  exit 0
endif
#   set command line parameters
set file=$1
set n=$2
#   get header info 
set tsnap=`unfio $file "$n*2-1" float | awk '{if (NR==1) print $1}'`
set nbody=`unfio $file "$n*2-1" int   | awk '{if (NR==2) print $1}'`
#   dump data and convert to snapshot
unfio $file "$n*2" float maxbuf=100000 |\\
   tabtos - ${file:r}.$n.snap "" pos,vel,phi options=wrap times=$tsnap nbody=$nbody
.fi
.SH BENCHMARKS
1000 particles on a 32**3 cube integrating for 20 steps took 4.77" on
a sparc Ultra-2.
.SH SEE ALSO
rungalaxy(1NEMO), unfio(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.PP
.nf
James & Sellwood (1978, MNRAS v182, p331) 
James (1977, J Comp Phys v25, p71).  
Sellwood (1997, in "Computational Astrophysics" ed Clarke & West, ASP Conf series v123, p215) 
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Jerry Sellwood
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
9-jun-97	V1.0  Sellwood public release/adopted for NEMO  	JS/PJT
24-jun-97	V1.1  added ICHECK/MEASURE; dtlog to galaxy.dat 	JS
18-mar-04	fixed bad usage line; refer to rungalaxy now	PJT
8-mar-06	V1.3  now installs by default into NEMOBIN	PJT
.fi
