.TH GAUSSFIT 1NEMO "19 July 1994"
.SH NAME
gaussfit \- Least Squares and Robust Estimation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgaussfit\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgaussfit\fP is a least squares and robust estimator of an
arbitrary parameterized model to observed data. This program
is a slight NEMO adapation of the University of Texas program
\fIgaussfit\fP. 
.PP
This version of 
\fBgaussfit\fP can be run in two modes. In the first mode 
an existing \fImodel\fP and \fIenvironment\fP file are given,
which contain all the initial conditions to run the program.
In this mode the program runs exactly as in the original
\fIgaussfit\fP program. 
In the second mode the \fIenvironment\fP file is either
created or modified from the remaining 
\fIenvironment\fP variables based 
program keywords (in NEMO style). This
is triggered by using any (but the correct combination) 
of those remaining parameters
This approach will not work in all
gaussfit application, but are fine for small problems with a 
simple set of parameters.
.PP
This manual page merely serves as a reminder for the somewhat
more efficient NEMO mode to run large amounts of fits, but it
is highly recommended to read the \fIGaussFit User Guide\fP (see below).
.PP
The datafiles in \fIgaussfit\fP must be specially formatted
(MIDAS-like) table format. 
Two useful tools that come with the \fIgaussfit\fP distribution are
\fImkgf(1gaussfit)\fP and \fIcjoin(1gaussfit)\fP.  
\fImkgf\fP will add a gaussfit header 
interactively to files that have data in columnar format.  \fIcjoin\fP will
strip off leading lines, and extract columns from different datafiles and
put them into a single file. See also \fItabs(1NEMO)\fP for converting
ascii tables to MIDAS format within NEMO.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBmodel=\fP\fImodel_file\fP
The input \fImodel\fP filename, which contains the mathematical
description of the model (see EXAMPLE below) to be used to fit the data,
in a C-like programming language. Within NEMO the model files can
also be located anywhere in the \fBGAUSSPATH\fP (unix) environment
variable. No default.
.TP
\fBenv=\fP\fIenv_file\fP
The input \fIenvironment\fP filename. Initial parameters and relevant
datafiles are described in this file, wich is a list 
of FITS-header formatted \fIkeyword=value\fP pairs. This environment file
can either be created from scratch (see remaining paramters below),
or an existing one is used. 
If left blank, a name with
an extension of \fImodel_file\fP is replaced with '\fBenv\fP'.
.TP
\fBdata=\fP\fIdata1,data2,...\fP
Name of the datafile(s) in \fIMIDAS\fP format. Up to 99 datafiles
can be used. See \fItabs(1NEMO)\fP how to format file this way. 
No default.
.TP
\fBparams=\fP\fIp1,v1,p2,v2,...\fP
Pairs of parameter names and values, separated by a comma. 
If this keyword is used
to update an environment file, you only need to specify the pairs
that will be different, if it's the first time around, you need to supply
initial values for all of the \fBparameters\fP in the \fImodel\fP file.
This parameter list translates into a parameter file, fed to \fIgaussfit\fP,
whose name is derived by replacing the \fImodel_file\fP extension with
'\fBpar\fP'. This file, in MIDAS-like table format, contains final fit.
.TP
\fBfair=\fP
The \fIasymptotic relative efficiency\fP (ARE) used by this 
Huber-type robust estimation method.
Select only one value for any of
the following \fBfair, huber, tukey, minsum\fP keywords. Their value should
be in the range 0.8 - 0.95, the authors suggest 0.9 or 0.95. 
Note that \fBfair\fP or \fBhuber\fP ~ \fB0.8\fP approaches
the \fIminsum\fP method. If none of these four were selected, 
the \fBstandard\fP least squares is used.
.TP
\fBhuber=\fP
see above. 
.TP
\fBtukey=\fP
see above. 
.TP
\fBminsum=\fP
Median type estimator, using Barrodale & Roberts algorithm. Probably
not good when more than one observation per equation of condition.
Set to 0 or 1. See also above.
.TP
\fBorm=\fP
Use orthogonal regression M-estimate. It measures the metric for 
goodness-of-fit orthogonally to the fitted function. 
By default true, use this to turn it off. Although recommended 
if \fBfair\fP or \fBtukey\fP is used, it *must* be used for
\fBhuber\fP.
.TP
\fBlambda=\fP
Marquardt-Levenberg. 
To activate set to a non-zero value. Typically 0.0001.
.TP
\fBfactor=\fP
Marquardt-Levenberg factor by which \fBlambda\fP is decreased when a
new chi-squared is less than the old.
To activate set to a non-zero value. Typically 0.1.
.TP
\fBirls=\fP
Two methods for iteration are provided. Newton's method, and
the method of iteratively reweighted least squares (IRLS). 
Set this parameter to true if you want to use IRLS since the
default is Newton. Note: variances cannot be computed in IRLS mode.
See also \fBdouble=\fP below.
.TP
\fBdouble=\fP
Two styles of iteration are provided. Single or double iteration.
.TP
\fBiters=\fP
Maximum number of iterations allowed. Default, if not used, will be 10.
.TP
\fBtol=\fP
Relative tolerance.
.TP
\fBtriang=\fP
Set this to true if you want to attempt to use triangularize the
matrix of conditions (keeps the size of matrix down). 
.TP
\fBprmat=\fP
Set this to true if you want to see intermediate matrices.
.TP
\fBprvar=\fP
Set this to true if you want to see the correlation matrix and
standard deviations (sigma's) of the parameters. Files 
\fIresults_file\fP\fB.corr\fP and
\fIresults_file\fP\fB.cov\fP will be created. Co-variances of the
parameters are listed in the parameter file.
.TP
\fBresults=\fP\fIresults_file\fP
Output logfile for results. If not given, the name
is derived from the model by replacing it's extension with \fBlog\fP.
.TP
\fBftn=\fP
Set this to turn on debugging output to a file \fBFTN\fP, which contains
a dump of the function interpreter. By default it's off.
.TP
\fBscale=\fP
Scale paramter that gaussfit computes if a robust estimation
was employed. Exact meaning to be published. Placed at output in the
environment file.
.TP
\fBsigma=\fP
Variance of unit weight of the solution. Placed at output in the
environment file.
.TP
\fBreset=t|f\fP
If set, all input files will be reset, and overwriting will be allowed.
This applies to the parameter and environment file. Only useful in case
the program in run in NEMO mode. Default: \fBf\fP.
.TP
\fBreport=t|f\fP
If set, at the end of the run, the parameter file is read and the
parameters and their errors (if available) are reported, one at a line.
.SH MODEL FILE
Here is a sample \fImodel\fP file for the linear least squares problem:
(\fIy=a+bx\fP, with no errors in \fIx\fP):
.nf

parameter a, b;
observation y;
data x;

main()
{
        while(import())
                export(y - (a + b*x));
}

.fi
.SH DATA
Input datafiles are in MIDAS format: columns separated by a TAB,
the first row containing the names of the columns, the second
row their types, and subsequent rows form the data.
.PP
The names of columns must correspond to the \fBobservation\fP and 
\fBdata\fP variables in the model file, and variances and co-variances
can be given in a column \fIx_x\fP and \fIx_y\fP (or \fIy_x\fP) resp.
.PP
An example how to create a MIDAS table from an ascii table which
contains 4 columns:
.nf
    % tabs in=test.table out=test.tab col=x,y,x_x,y_y
.fi
.SH DEFICIENCES
The NEMO approach cannot easily handle cases where the parameters
are indexed.
.PP
Fixing parameters can only be done by editing the model file, and
either changing a \fBparameter\fP into a \fBconstant\fP (this keeps
the paramter in the parameter file, or \fBparams=\fP keyword), or
adding constraints to the model file. Examples are in the manual.
.SH SEE ALSO
linreg(1NEMO), tablsqfit(1NEMO), tabs(1NEMO), mkgf(1gaussfit), cjoin(1gaussfit)
.PP
\fIGaussFit: A System of Least Squares and Robust Estimation\fP, USERS MANUAL,
by William H. Jeffreys, Micheal J. Fitzpatrick., Barbara E. McArthur,
and James E. McCartney. University of Texas at Austin.
.fi
.SH FILES
.nf
$NEMO/usr/tools/gaussfit/ 	V3.04 release
$NEMODAT/gaussfit         	repository of some example model files
ftp://clyde.as.utexas.edu/pub/gaussfit/  	official (anonymous ftp) release
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following UNIX environment variables are used by \fIgaussfit\fP:
.ta +1i
.nf

\fBGAUSSFIT\fP  	colon separated list of directories searched for model files

.fi
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Barbara McArthur (mca@astro.as.utexas.edu0)
        Source Code Copyright (C) 1987 by William H. Jefferys,
        Michael J. Fitzpatrick and Barbara E. McArthur
        All Rights Reserved.
Peter Teuben (this NEMO interface)
.fi
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
11-aug-92	first nemo version	pjt
xx-apr-94	v3.04 new improved compiler, wobble fix, more env,... 	mca
14-Jul-94	(nemo) added second mode option to run gaussfit  	pjt
26-may-96	installed the 3.53 version (sep 95)	pjt
.fi
