.TH GETTAB 1NEMO "15 August 1992"
.SH NAME
gettab \- extract real table from a table
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgettab\fP \fBin=\fP\fIin_table\fP \fBout=\fP\fIout_table\fP   [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIgettab\fP extracts numeric portions of a table. A table can either be processed
in free format (in which case only column numbers need to be given), or
in fixed format (in which case the starting position and format specification
need to be supplied).
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIin_tab\fP
Input (ascii) table, no default.
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP\fIout_tab\fP
Output (ascii) table, no default.
.TP 20
\fBcolnr=\fP\fIc1,c2,...cN\fP
Input column numbers to extract. Column numbers only need to be supplied
in the free format case. \fBcolpos\fP and \fBcolfmt\fP are then ignored.
Column numbers are numbered 1 through N, columns are separated by
whitespace or a comma.
If a 0 is specified, the return value is filled in with the line
number from the input file, 1 being the first.
Default: none.
.TP 20
\fBcolpos=\fP\fIi1,i2,...iL\fP
Input column positions to extract in fixed format case.
Column positions can be numbered 1 through the
line length. This keyword is equivalent to the FITS
\fBTBCOL\fP keyword.
If a 0 is specified, the returned value is filled in with the line
number from the input file, 1 being the first.
Default: none.
.TP 20
\fBcolfmt=\fP\fIf1, f2...fL\fP
Input format for fixed fmt case. Format specification can be in standard C
\fIprintf\fP format, though a limited number of fortran format
specifications are also understood (\fBF\fP\fIn.m\fP, \fBG\fP\fIn.m\fP)
This keyword is equivalent to the FITS \fBTFORM\fP keyword.
Default: none.
.TP 20
\fBfmt=\fP\fIout_fmt\fP
Output format. All columns are currently printed using this format.
[Default: \fB%g\fP].
.TP 20
\fBnmax=\fP\fImax_row\fP
Maximum number of rows (data) to read. In reality this is a local buffer size,
and tables with more than \fImax_row\fP can be comfortably read.
[Default: \fB1000\fP]
.SH EXAMPLE
The following two examples extracts column 3 and 4 in free format, the first
one using \fBgettab\fP, the second one using \fIawk\fP:
.nf

    1% \fIgettab in_tab out_tab 1,2\fP
    2% \fIawk '{print $1,$2}' < in_tab > out_tab\fP

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
awk(1), table(3NEMO)
.SH FILES
.nf 
.ta +2i
~/src/kernel/tab	gettab.c
.nf
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
06-Aug-92	V1.0 Created	PJT
.fi
