.TH GRAVIDY1 1NEMO "16 June 2023"

.SH "NAME"
gravidy, rungravidy \- direct summation CPU/MPI/GPU hermite N-body integrator with variable block timesteps

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBgravidy -i input_file ...\fP
.PP
\fBrungravidy in= outdir= ...\fP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fIGraviDy\fP is a direct-summation N-body integrator based on the Hermite scheme. It can be compiled in a CPU (including openMP),
an MPI, and a GPU (using CUDA) version. Depending on your needs, a single core version using GNU parallel can be a faster
way to get survey results.
.PP
\fIgravidy\fP is not installed by default in NEMO. See INSTALL below. The \fBrungravidy\fP NEMO frontend is
available for those who want to work with NEMO's \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP files.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
The following NEMO parameters are recognized for \fBrungravidy\fP, where the correspoding short and long flag for \fBgravidy\fP is
mentioned as well:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input file, required (-i --input) [???]
.TP
\fBoutdir=\fP
Output run directory, required (-o --output) [???] 
.TP
\fBeta=\fP
Time-step parameter for irregular force polynomial (-e --eta) [0.01]
.TP
\fBdeltat=\fP
Output time interval in units of the crossing (-z --interval)  [0.125]
.TP
\fBtcrit=\fP
Termination time in units of the crossing time (-t --time) [1]
.TP
\fBeps=\fP
Gravitational softening parameter (-s --softening) [0.0001]  
.TP
\fBlagrange=\fP
Print information of the Lagrange Radii in every integration time (-l --lagrange) [t]
.TP
\fBall=\fP
Print all the information of N-particles in every integration time (-a --all) [f]
.TP
\fBgpu=\fP
GPUs to use, by default is the maximum available devices (use even numbers) (-g --gpu) [0]
.TP
\fBdryrun=\fP
If set, would only display the shell commands  [f]      
.TP 
\fBexe=\fP
Name of the executable [gravidy]
.PP
Note the current version of \fBrungravidy\fP does not support the \fB-p\fP (screen output)
and \fB-r\fP (resume an old run) options.

.nf

GraviDy:
  -h [ --help ]         Display this message

Required options:
  -i [ --input ] <filename>       Input data filename
  -t [ --time ] <value> (=1)      Integration time (In N-body units)
  -r [ --resume ] <filename>.info Resume a simulation with an .info file

Elective options:
  -o [ --output ] <filename>      Output data filename
  -s [ --softening ] <value>      Softening parameter (default 1e-4)
  -e [ --eta ] <value>            ETA of time-step calculation (default 0.01)
  -p [ --screen ]                 Print summary in the screen instead of a file
  -z [ --interval ] <value>       Output time interval (default 0.125)

Extra options:
  -l [ --lagrange ]               Print information of the Lagrange Radii in every
                                  integration time
  -a [ --all ]                    Print all the information of N-particles in every
                                  integration time
  -g [ --gpu ] <value> (=0)       GPUs to use, by default is the maximum available
                                  devices (use even numbers)
.fi

.SH "EXAMPLE"
Here is an example integrating gravidy with NEMO files
.nf

  mkplummer p128 128
  snapprint p128 i,m,x,y,z,vx,vy,vz format=%.15f > p128.tab
  gravidy --input p128.tab --output p128 --interval 0.1 --time 10 --eta 0.01 --softening 0.05
  cat p128.out.snapshot_0* | sed 's/# Time://' | tabtos - - time skip,m,pos,vel nbody=128 | csf - p128.out SnapShot
  
.fi
although note that the last snapshot (time=10.0) is replicated. The \fBrungravidy\fP frontend would simplify this to
.nf

  mkplummer p128 128
  mkdir p128.d
  rungravidy p128 p128.d deltat=0.1 tcrit=10 eta=0.01 eps=0.05
  snapplot p128.d/OUT3.snap
  
.fi
with the caveat that \fBrungravidy\fP enforces the use of a run directory.

.SH "INSTALL"
Example from NEMO/usr/gravidy. See README file for dependencies such as the BOOST library
.nf

   cd $NEMO/usr/gravidy
   make clean install
   make cmp34
   
.fi
this will install the vanilla "cpu" version.   The "gpu" and "mpi" version will need more guidance.
.PP
The "cmp34" target will compare the results of a direct run of gravidy with the same one of rungravidy. There
should be no differences.
.PP

.SH "AUTHOR"
Cristian Maureira-Fredes, and Pao Amaro-Seoane (gravidy), Peter Teuben (rungravidy)

.SH "FILES"
.nf
NEMO/usr/gravidy - root directory
rungravidy.c - example NEMO frontend
.fi

.SH "ADS"
@ads 2018MNRAS.473.3113M

.SH "SEE ALSO"
nbody1(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.PP
Maureira-Fredes, C and Amaro-Seoane, P. "GraviDy, a GPU modular, parallel direct-summation N-body integrator: Dynamics with softening", MNRAS, vol. 473, pp. 3113-3127, Jan . 2018.  https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018MNRAS.473.3113M
.PP
http://github.com/cmaureir/gravidy.git

.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
12-feb-2017	example added	PJT
6-apr-2023	add install note	PJT
16-jun-2023	(rungravidy v0.4 now using gravidy default parameters	PJT
.fi
