.TH HACKCODE3 1NEMO "21 December 2012"
.SH NAME
hackcode3, hackcode3_qp \- hierarchical N-body code (3)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhackcode3\fP [\fIparameter\fP=\fIvalue\fP] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIhackcode3\fP is fully based on hackcode1, except it allows you to
fiddle with the potential in various ways. They all have as a result that
the total energy of the system is (generally) not conserved.
.PP
The keyword \fBnrigid\fP allows you to fix the first \fInrigid\fP
particles in space.
.PP
The keywords \fBpotname, potpars\fP and \fBpotfile\fP allow you to add
a "static" background potential in the \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP formulation.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized; they may be given in any order.
.TP 24
\fBin\fP=\fIin-file\fP
If given, initial conditions will be read from \fIin-file\fP in
snapshot format.
At most one of \fBin\fP, \fBrestart\fP, or \fBcontinue\fP may be specified.
.TP
\fBout\fP=\fIout-file\fP
If given, results are written to \fIout-file\fP in snapshot format. Note
as of version 1.4 only the non-rigid particles are output.
.TP
\fBrestart\fP=\fIstate-file\fP
If given, the system state will be read from \fIstate-file\fP.
New values are accepted for the following parameters:
\fBout\fP, \fBsave\fP, \fBeps\fP, \fBtol\fP, \fBoptions\fP,
\fBfcells\fP, \fBtstop\fP, \fBfreqout\fP, \fBminor_freqout\fP,
and \fBdebug\fP.
At most one of \fBin\fP, \fBrestart\fP, or \fBcontinue\fP may be specified.
.TP
\fBcontinue\fP=\fIstate-file\fP
If given, the system state will be read from \fIstate-file\fP.
New values are accepted for the following parameters:
\fBout\fP, \fBsave\fP, and \fBdebug\fP.
At most one of \fBin\fP, \fBrestart\fP, or \fBcontinue\fP may be specified.
.TP
\fBsave\fP=\fIstate-file\fP
If given, the system state will be saved in \fIstate-file\fP after each
timestep.
.TP
\fBnbody\fP=\fInbody-value\fP
Number of bodies for test data, generated only if none of
\fBin\fP, \fBrestart\fP, or \fBcontinue\fP are specified.
Default is \fB128\fP.
.TP
\fBseed\fP=\fIrandom-seed\fP
Random number seed used in generating initial conditions.
Default is \fB123\fP.
.TP
\fBcencon\fP=\fIcencon-flag\fP
If \fBtrue\fP, generate centrally concentrated test system.
Default is \fBfalse\fP.
.TP
\fBfreq\fP=\fIinteg-freq\fP
Inverse time-step, to be used with a leap-frog integrator.
Default is \fB32.0\fP (32 steps per unit time).
.TP
\fBeps\fP=\fIsoft-length\fP
Force softening parameter.
Default is \fB0.05\fP.
.TP
\fBtol\fP=\fItheta-value\fP
Opening-angle tolerence parameter.
Default is \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBfcells\fP=\fIfcells-value\fP
Ratio of cells to bodies, used when allocating cells.
Default is \fB0.75\fP.
.TP
\fBoptions\fP=\fIoption-string\fP
Miscellaneous control options, specified as a comma-separated list
of keywords.
Currently recognized keywords are:
\fBreset_time\fP: when reading initial data, set \fItnow\fP to zero;
\fBnew_tout\fP: when restarting, set new output times;
\fBmass\fP, \fBphi\fP, \fBacc\fP: output mass, potential,
acceleration data with major data outputs.
.TP
\fBnrigid\fP=\fInrigid\fP
The first \fInrigid\fP particles are taken as rigid. [default: \fB0\fP]
.TP
\fBtstop\fP=\fIstop-time\fP
Time to stop integration in N-body model units.
Default is \fB2.0\fP.
.TP
\fBfreqout\fP=\fIout-freq\fP
Frequency of major N-body data outputs.
Default is \fB4.0\fP (4 frames per unit time).
.TP
\fBminor_freqout\fP=\fIout-freq\fP
Frequency of minor diagnostic outputs.
If this frequency is not a simple fraction of \fBfreq\fP (see above),
the program can waiste significant amounts of time.
Default is \fB32.0\fP (32 diagnostic measurements per unit time).
.TP
\fBpotname\fP=\fIpot_name\fI
Descriptor name for potential(5). [default: none].
.TP
\fBpotpars\fP=\fIparameters\fP
Parameters for potential(5). The first one is normally reserverd for 
pattern speed, and is now set to 0.0.
If a name for the potential is given, and no parameters
are given here, intrinsic defaults are used. [default: none].
.TP
\fBpotfile\fP=\fIfile\fP
Optional additional filename for potential(5). For historic reasons the 
parameter list in \fBpotpars\fP can only contain numbers. If for any
reason it also needs a character string (often a filename associated
with the potential), the \fBpotfile\fP parameter is used.
[default: none].
.TP
\fBdebug\fP=\fIdebug-flag\fP
Debugging switch; generates lots of output.
Default is \fBfalse\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
newton0(1NEMO).
.SH BUGS/LIMITATIONS
When a \fBrestart\fP is specified, values must be given for \fBALL\fP
legal parameters which do not take default values.
.PP
For relatively large values of \fBnrigid\fP the code is inefficient,
because it still calculates the forces for all rigid particles on
every timestep. It would only be necessary when diagnostics
are computed.
.PP
The \fBnrigid\fP algorithm used will only work when the force does
not depend on the velocities of the particles.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
$NEMO/src/nbody/evolve/hackcode/hackcode3
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
26-Jan-90	V1.2  nrigid added	PJT
2-apr-90	V1.2a etot bug removed	PJT
8-may-92	formally added to NEMO	PJT
21-dec-2012	V1.4 only non-rigid particles output	PJT
.fi
