.TH HACKCODE1 1NEMO "27 July 2011"
.SH NAME
hackcode1, hackcode1_qp \- hierarchical N-body code
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhackcode1\fP [\fIparameter\fP=\fIvalue\fP] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIhackcode1\fP is an equal-timestep implementation of a hierarchical
N-body code (J. Barnes and P. Hut, \fINature\fP \fB324\fP, 446).
It uses an adaptave Eulerian tree to reduce the number of interactions
per time-step to \fIO\fP(\fIN\fPlog\fIN\fP).
\fIhackcode1_qp\fP is similar, but includes quadrupole corrections to
body-cell interactions (L. Hernquist, \fIApp. J. Suppl.\fP, \fB64\fI, 715, 
1987).
.PP
Particles with zero mass will not be included in building the 
tree structure, and hence in effect produce a restricted N-body code.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized; they may be given in any order.
.TP 24
\fBin\fP=\fIin-file\fP
If given, initial conditions will be read from \fIin-file\fP in
snapshot format.
At most one of \fBin\fP, \fBrestart\fP, or \fBcontinue\fP may be specified.
.TP
\fBout\fP=\fIout-file\fP
If given, results are written to \fIout-file\fP in snapshot format.
.TP
\fBrestart\fP=\fIstate-file\fP
If given, the system state will be read from \fIstate-file\fP.
New values are accepted for the following parameters:
\fBout\fP, \fBsave\fP, \fBeps\fP, \fBtol\fP, \fBoptions\fP,
\fBfcells\fP, \fBtstop\fP, \fBfreqout\fP, \fBminor_freqout\fP,
and \fBdebug\fP.
At most one of \fBin\fP, \fBrestart\fP, or \fBcontinue\fP may be specified.
.TP
\fBcontinue\fP=\fIstate-file\fP
If given, the system state will be read from \fIstate-file\fP.
New values are accepted for the following parameters:
\fBout\fP, \fBsave\fP, and \fBdebug\fP.
At most one of \fBin\fP, \fBrestart\fP, or \fBcontinue\fP may be specified.
.TP
\fBsave\fP=\fIstate-file\fP
If given, the system state will be saved in \fIstate-file\fP after each
timestep.
.TP
\fBnbody\fP=\fInbody-value\fP
Number of bodies for test data, generated only if none of
\fBin\fP, \fBrestart\fP, or \fBcontinue\fP are specified.
Default is \fB128\fP.
.TP
\fBseed\fP=\fIrandom-seed\fP
Random number seed used in generating initial conditions.
Default is \fB123\fP.
.TP
\fBcencon\fP=\fIcencon-flag\fP
If \fBtrue\fP, generate centrally concentrated test system.
Default is \fBfalse\fP.
.TP
\fBfreq\fP=\fIinteg-freq\fP
Inverse time-step, to be used with a leap-frog integrator.
Default is \fB32.0\fP (32 steps per unit time).
.TP
\fBeps\fP=\fIsoft-length\fP
Force softening parameter.
Default is \fB0.05\fP.
.TP
\fBtol\fP=\fItheta-value\fP
Opening-angle tolerence parameter.
Default is \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBfcells\fP=\fIfcells-value\fP
Ratio of cells to bodies, used when allocating cells.
Default is \fB0.75\fP.
.TP
\fBoptions\fP=\fIoption-string\fP
Miscellaneous control options, specified as a comma-separated list
of keywords.
Currently recognized keywords are:
\fBreset_time\fP: when reading initial data, set \fItnow\fP to zero;
\fBnew_tout\fP: when restarting, set new output times;
\fBmass\fP, \fBphi\fP, \fBacc\fP: output mass, potential,
acceleration data with major data outputs. The phase space coordinates
are always output.  It also seems that the reset_time and new_tout
options have not been implemented yet.
Default: \fBmass,phase\fP.
.TP
\fBtstop\fP=\fIstop-time\fP
Time to stop integration in N-body model units.
Default is \fB2.0\fP.
.TP
\fBfreqout\fP=\fIout-freq\fP
Frequency of major N-body data outputs.
Default is \fB4.0\fP (4 frames per unit time).
.TP
\fBminor_freqout\fP=\fIout-freq\fP
Frequency of minor diagnostic outputs.
If this frequency is not a simple fraction of \fBfreq\fP (see above),
the program can waiste significant amounts of time.
Default is \fB32.0\fP (32 diagnostic measurements per unit time).
.TP
\fBlog\fP=\fIlogfile\fP
Output filename for log. 
Default is standard output (\fB-\fP). Can also use \fBlog=.\fP to make it disappear
in case your out=- needs to be part of a pipe.
.SH SEE ALSO
treecode(1NEMO), newton0(1NEMO), directcode(1NEMO), gyrfalcON(1NEMO)
.nf
https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1986Natur.324..446B
Appel, A. SIAM J. Sei. statist. Comput. 6, 85-103 (1985)  https://doi.org/10.1137/0906008
.fi
.SH BUGS
This code is the very original 1986 (NEMO) version of the Barnes & Hut 
treecode and only kept in NEMO for that reason. It is not the most 
efficient treecode (see e.g. \fItreecode(1NEMO)\fP and \fIgyrfalcON(1NEMO)\fP
for improved versions), and also suffers from the 
Warren & Salmon imploding galaxy bug.
.PP
When a \fBrestart\fP is specified, values must be given for \fBALL\fP
legal parameters which do not take default values.
.PP
\fIcontinue=\fP does not seem to work. Use \fIrestart=\fP
.SH BENCHMARK
Running \fBhackcode1\fP with all default parameters will
integrate a 128 body plummer sphere for 64 timesteps to time 2
with softening 0.05 and critical opening angle 1 and a seed of
123. Assuming the standard portable 'ran3' from NumRec
is being used in \fIxrandom(3NEMO)\fP, we get the following 
initial and final printout:
.nf
  tnow       T+U       T/U     nttot     nbavg     ncavg   cputime
 0.000   -0.2675   -0.5434      3864         9        20      0.00

          cm pos   -0.0000    0.0000    0.0000
          cm vel   -0.0000    0.0000   -0.0000

...

  tnow       T+U       T/U     nttot     nbavg     ncavg   cputime
 2.000   -0.2647   -0.4857      4899        17        20      0.00

          cm pos    0.0002   -0.0018    0.0007
          cm vel    0.0003   -0.0019    0.0009

.fi
.SH CAVEATS
Particles cannot occupy the same position, since building the treestructure
is done in integerized coordinates.
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes.
.SH FILES
.ta +1.5i
.nf
src/nbody/evolve/hackcode/hackcode1/	original NEMOized 1986 code
usr/josh/treecode			updated 1990s version
.fi
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
1-jul-87	V1.0  man written	JEB
11-jul-89	V1.2  using getparam()'s debug keyword + doc impr. 	PJT
8-jun-90	V1.2  corrected error in man page	PJT
13-may-91	added undocumented feature of restricted Nbody  	PJT
6-mar-94	added link to export version	PJT
29-mar-04	V1.4 major code cleanup for MacOS and prototypes	PJT
27-jul-11	V1.5 removed debug=, added log=  	PJT
.fi
