.TH HACKFORCE 1NEMO "29 March 2004"
.SH NAME
hackforce, hackforce_qp \- hierarchical force calculation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhackforce in=\fP\fIin-file\fP [\fIparameter\fP=\fIvalue\fP] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIhackforce\fP calculates the forces on particles due to
a particle distribution (not necessarely the same) using an
an adaptave Eulerian tree to reduce the number of interactions
to \fIO\fP(\fIN\fPlog\fIN\fP). 
.PP
\fIhackforce_qp\fP is similar, but includes quadrupole corrections to
body-cell interactions (L. Hernquist, \fIApp. J. Suppl.\fP, 1987).
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized; they may be given in any order
if the keyword is also given.
.TP 24
\fBin\fP=\fIin-file\fP
Input snapshot file, which contain the particles for which the forces
need to be calculated [no default].
.TP
\fBout\fP=\fIout-file\fP
Output file to which, if given, the results are written to.
Wil be in snapshot format.
.TP
\fBtest\fP=\fItest-file\fP
Test file, which contains the set of particle from which the forces are
calculated. If not given, the particle distribution is taken from the
\fIin-file\fP [default: not used].
.TP
\fBtol\fP=\fItheta-value\fP
Opening-angle tolerence parameter.
Default is \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBeps\fP=\fIsoft-length\fP
Force softening parameter.
Default is \fB0.05\fP.
.TP
\fBrsize\fP=\fIlength\fP
Initial guess of size of box which should contain all the particles.
This may be of the
[default: \fB4\fP].
.TP
\fBrmin\fP=\fI
Lower left corner of the initial corner. May be of the form
"num,num,num" [default: -rmin/2, i.e. a centered box].
.TP
\fBoptions\fP=\fIoption-string\fP
Miscellaneous control options, specified as a comma-separated list
of keywords.
Currently recognized keywords are:
\fBmass\fP, \fBphase\fP: outputs as extra the mass
and phase coordinates. Potential and acceleration data are always
output. [default: mass,phase].
.TP
\fBfcells\fP=\fIfcells-value\fP
Ratio of cells to bodies, used when allocating cells.
Default is \fB0.75\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
hackcode1(NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes.
.SH FILES
~/src/josh/hackcode/source1/*
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
xx-xxx-87	V0: created	JEB
7-jul-89	V1.1 doc written, keyorder and some defaults changed	PJT
29-mar-04	V1.6 major code cleanup for MacOS 10.3 and prototypes	PJT
.fi
