.TH HDFGRID 1NEMO "27 October 2006"
.SH NAME
hdfwedge \- Regrid a polar HDF4 SDS wedge to cartesian image
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhdfwedge\fP in=SDS-file out=CCD-file [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhdfwedge\fP regrids HDF (SDS) files that are assumed to
be in polar (rad-phi) coordinates, but can contain any size wedge
(ideally an integer fraction of 2.PI). It was cloned off
\fPhdfgrid(1NEMO)\fP in December 2004, so a number of their 
comments on the assumptions on the input format also apply to
this program. See also CAVEATS below for some important notes.
.PP
The first two dimension must be radius and angle, there can be
an optional 3rd dimension, but it must be 1 slice in Z only.
.PP
The (2D) four-point interpolation that is used in regridding is
based on the one in \fIcmhog/movie.src\fP, but includes correct
interpolations for points that are created if \fBperiodic=t\fP
is used. The program is not well designed to detect errors
in the amount of periodicity (e.g. creating a wedge
from -1 to 1 radian, and setting \fPperiodic=t\fP will probably
result in awkward looking images.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIhdf_sds\fP
Input file (HDF SD). No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIimage\fP
Output file, in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format.
.TP
\fBselect=\fP\fIframe_no\fP
Select which SDS from the file (1=first). See also \fBzvar=\fP below.
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBnx=\fP\fIX_pixels\fP
Number of pixels in X.
[Default: \fB256\fP]
.TP
\fBny=\fP\fIY_pixels\fP
Number of pixels in Y   
[Default: \fB256\fP].
.TP
\fBxrange=\fP\fIxmin:xmax\fP
Range in X     
[Default: \fB-16:16\fP].
.TP
\fByrange=\fP\fIymin:ymax\fP
Range in Y     
[Default: \fB-16:16\fP].
.TP
\fBzvar=\fP\fIgrid_var\fP
Gridding variable. Normally left alone, unless certain allowed mathematical
expressions on the direct griddable variables (as defined by \fBselect=\fP)
need to be overriden. Allowed are \fBvr\fP (select=1), \fBvt\fP (select=2),
\fBden\fP (select=3), \fBvx\fP, \fBvy\fP, 
\fBvm\fP and \fBvp\fP. Note
that \fBvm\fP and \fBvp\fP are special cases of
a linear combination of \fBvx\fP, \fBvy\fP
\fIvm =  (vx-vy)/sqrt(2)\fP and \fIvp = (vx+vy)/sqrt(2)\fP, just
to get an idea of the velocity field under a "middle" position angle.
** currently not implemented yet **
Default: not used, select= is used.
.TP
\fBperiodic=t|f\P
Attempt to fill the plane by making the data periodic.
** currently only periodic=t works **
[Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBz=\fP\fIz-value\fP
Select a z-slice (0=first) from the RPZ cube if NZ > 1. By default
the first (or only for 2D data) slice is used.
.TP
\fBorder=\fP\fI{z,p,r}\fP
Order of HDF axes. Note again that the order of axes in HDF is defined
in C order (eg. as seen in \fItsd(1NEMO)\fP), where the first printed axis
is the slowest varying axis (usually the Z  axis in an R-P-Z cube.
But we still would call this cube with \fBorder=zpr\fP
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is ....
.nf

  hdfwedge hdf010aa den010.ccd select=4 nx=256 ny=256 xrange=-8:8 yrange=-8:8

.fi
.SH CAVEATS
The current version is under development, and a few things should be noted:
.PP
zvar= and periodic= do not work yet.
.PP
The algorithm tries to find how many multiples of the wedge are needed to
fill 2.pi, and adds a shadow zone at either end to simplify dealing with
coordinates close the -X axis. Wedges that are close to, but not exactly, 
whole fractionals of 2.pi can result in a shadow zone that is offset by
2. The program will detect this and attempt to repair this roundoff
error (or a dataset with questionable choices of the boundary). This
will occur for odd sized PHI axis, but is now fixed as a special case.
.SH BUGS
Maps made with an odd numbered of PHI zones have a minor discontinuity along -X axis.
.SH FILES
src/image/hdf/cmhog  	hdfwedge.c
.SH SEE ALSO
hdfgrid(1NEMO), tsd(1NEMO), sdsfits(1NEMO)
.nf
visit: http://www.llnl.gov/visit/
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
17-dec-04	V0.1 created	PJT
20-dec-04	V0.2 repair files with 2-step shadow zones	PJT
23-dec-04	V0.3 fixed for odd sized Nphi files	PJT
26-oct-06	V0.5 use z= to handle 3D cubes	PJT
.fi
