.TH HELLERSNAP 1NEMO "4 October 2007"
.SH NAME
hellersnap \- convert Heller's SPH dumps to snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhellersnap\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Converts Clayton Heller's NBODY+SPH dump files  into standard 
\fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. 
.PP
Note that there are different versions around.
See also \fIdmp2nemo\fP, written before this version was known.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input dump file. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output snapshot file. No default.
.TP
\fPkey=class\fP
.TP
\fPaux=\fP
.TP
\fPphi=\fP
.TP
\fPacc=\fP
.TP
\fBlsfm=\fI
If given, you can override the boolean (fortran) value of the
lsfm parameter (last one in the first record of the data).
You may need to set this to false, if you want to read certain
types of old data.
.TP
\fBversion=\fP
If given, override any internal versioning that may be used.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
Random verbiage      
.SH FORMAT
Dump files are unformatted FORTRAN, that can also be inspected with NEMO's
\fIunfio(1NEMO)\fP program. The following blocks are dumped:
.nf
    1. dmpindx,date,ndim,eqnindx,version,gamma,poly,lsfm    (64 bytes)
    2. tframe,n1,n2 (16 bytes)
    3. class(n0)		** Key **
    4. state(n0)		
    5. mass(n0)			** Mass **
    6. x(n0)			** PhaseSpace **
    7. y(n0)
    8. z(n0)
    9. vx(n0)
    10. vy(n0)
    11. vz(n0)
        
        12. eps(n0)    : dmpindx > 1
        13. phi(n0)			** Potential **
        14. ax(n0)			** Acc **
        15. ay(n0)
        16. az(n0)
        17.	smft(n0)    [only if lsfm is TRUE)
        18.	smfz(n0)    [only if lsfm is TRUE)

        19. u(n2)      : dmpindx > 2 && n2 > 0
        20. d(n2)
        21. divv(n2)
        22. udot1(n2)
        23. udot2(n2)
        24. udot3(n2)		[only in version 2]
        25. udot4(n2)		[only in version 2]
        26. h(n2)
        27. wgtmol(n2)		[only in version 2]
        28. frcneu(n2)		[only in version 2]
        29. tau(n2)		[only in version 2]

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
unfio(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
.ta +2i
.nf
src/nbody/io	hellersnap.c
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
26-jun-98	V1.0 Created, for version=1	NEMO
23-may-01	V2.0 included new options, for version=2	PJT
.fi
