.TH HISF 1NEMO "6 May 1995"
.SH NAME
hisf \- display and manipulate history of datafiles.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBhisf in=\fPsf_in [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIhisf\fP displays the history (\fBHeadline\fP,\fBHistory\fP), 
as found at the beginning (see \fItsf(1NEMO)\fP) of any 
structured data file. 
Optionally it can 
append a new history text string to the (from data
stripped) output file. The output (history) has some value in
adding new history information to an existing data file.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIsf_in\fP
Input file, in binary structured format. [no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIout_file\fP
output file, in pure history format. The data have been stripped off
the input file.  [default: none]
.TP
\fBitem=\fP
Select which item to print. It can be a number, in which case the
appropriate history item is output, or \fBall\fP, in which case
all history is written out (the default), or \fBheadline\fP,
in which case only the (optional) one-line headline of the dataset
is output.
[Default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBhistory=\fIstring\fP
String appended to the existing history from the input file [default: none].
.TP
\fBskip\fP=\fInskip\fP
Number of lines to skip from the (reverse) history. Since running the
program, causes \fIhisf\fP itself to appear on the history list,
a default value of \fB1\fP is used to fake a more sensible output.
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.SH BUGS
\fIhisf\fP will only find history/headline's at the beginning of a datafile.
Of course this could be seen as the definition of a 'history' line. Use
\fIcsf(1NEMO)\fP for more manual work.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tsf(1NEMO), csf(1NEMO), history(3NEMO), getparam(3NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
src/kernel/io	history.c (-DTOOLBOX)
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +2.0i +2.0i
 8-Mar-88	V1.0: created          	PJT
22-jul-91	V1.9: documentation updated	PJT
6-may-95	V2.3: doc up to date with code	PJT
.fi
