.TH HISPECTRUM 1NEMO "6 March 1996"
.SH NAME
hispectrum \- HI spectrum extraction and gridder
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhispectrum\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIhispectrum\fP can perform any of the following functions:
.PP
1) List the scan positions of a given HI survey dataset. 
.PP
2) Extract a single spectrum from the combined HI surveys. 
It does this by simply searching through
the databases until the distance to the
requested position is less than a required miniumum distance.
It can also report the nearest or take an average of the
spectra within a search radius. See the \fBmode=\fP keyword
below.
.PP
3) Combine, weigh and grid spectra from the combined HI surveys
into a velocity-position-position (VLB) datacube. This is 
generally a 
time- and disk-consuming task, since a temporary list of
relevant scans is written to disk into a scratch file.
Note that creating a datacube is done by gridding in X and Y,
while the Velocity axis is sampled (interpolated) from
a predefined set of values (normally regular, like the grid
in X and Y).
.PP
The HI survey databases live in either your current directory
or the directory given by the environment variable \fBHI_DIR\fP, and
can be compressed (.Z or .gz) (see \fIhi(5NEMO)\fP).
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBhi=\fP\fIHI_id\fP
Input dataset id's to combine {hh,pk,ar,bl,ww,kj,lb}. 
Minimum match is applied. See also \fIhi(5NEMO)\fP for survey
id's. [No default].
.TP
\fBlon=\fP\fIl\fP
Desired galactic longitude (l) to find a single spectrum. Must be in the
range 0..360 degrees.
If none supplied, all scan positions 
in the database will be shown. This keyword is only active when
cube gridding (see \fBcube=\fP below) has not been selected.
.TP
\fBlat=\fP\fIb\fP
Desired galactic latitude (b) to find a single spectrum. Must be in the
range -90..90 degrees. See comments above.
.TP
\fBvlsr=\fP\fIvmin:vmax:vstep\fP
Velocity value samples (km/s, in LSR units), on which the output
spectrum is interpolated. If none choosen,
the original raw data will be shown. 
When gridding a datacube (see \fBcube=\fP below), 
you \fBmust\fP specify these output velocities since different
datasets are on different velocity scales (note: the user
should compensate for interpolation using the \fBbscale/bzero\fP
keywords below).
When a requested velocity is outside the
range of the raw data, 0.0 is returned in the spectrum. 
Default: none.
.TP
\fBcube=\fP\fIfits_file\fP
Output cube, if requested. 
This file will be in standard \fIfits(5NEMO)\fP format. 
Default: none, a single spectrum or all scan positions are listed
(see \fBlat=\fP and \fBlon=\fP above).
.TP
\fBxgrid=\fP\fIxmin,xmax,step\fP
X-range (min and max) and step, in the output cube (see also
\fBprojection=\fP).
If \fIxmin\fP is negative, the galactic center will be properly placed 
somewhere in the middle of the grid.
Note these values are the centers of the first and last pixel requested,
not the edges of the pixels.
Default: none.
.TP
\fBygrid=\fP\fIymin,ymax,step\fP
Y-range (min and max) and step, in the output cube 
Note these values are the centers of the first and last pixel requested.
Default: none.
.TP
\fBbscale=\fP\fIscale_factor(s)\fP
Scale factors applied to input spectra. See also \fBbzero=\fP.
One value for each input dataset much be given
(see \fBhi=\fP above).
Default: 1.0.
.TP
\fBbzero=\fP\fIoffset(s)\fP
Offset applied to input spectra after scaling (\fBbscale=\fP). 
One for each input dataset much be given
(see \fBhi=\fP above).
Default: 0.0.
.TP
\fBweight=\fP\fIfactor(s)\fP
Relative weight factor given to a dataset when they are combined.
One for each input dataset much be given
(see \fBhi=\fP above).
Default: 1.0
.TP
\fBncell=\fP
Number of neighbor cells to use in gridding. Default: 0 (only the
scans in the cell of interest are taken into account).
.TP
\fBsigma=\fP
Weighting distance (in degrees) with which data from neighboring 
pixels are used to combine. Currently the weighing function ...
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBdist=\fP
Minimum distance when to stop searching for a single spectrum.
Only used if you want to override the
one in the database (it is probably not a good idea to
use this keyword and let the database choose a value).
Default: not used, the internal database
value (see \fIhi.h\fP:  \fBhi_defs[].dist_min\fP) is used.
.TP
\fBmode=first|aver|near\fP    
Modes in single spectrum search. Possible modes are 
\fIfirst, average,\fP and \fInearest\fP. Minimum match applies.
[Default: \fBfirst\fP].
.TP
\fBclip=\fP
Range of brightness temperatures which to include or exclude from
the gridding. Note clipping occurs AFTER the data has been rescaled
with the \fBbzero,bscale\fP parameters(see above). Default: none.
\fI** not implemented **\fP
.TP
\fBoutfreq=\fP
Status output frequency (debug=1). Searching the databases 
for valid scans is very time consuming, and it's useful
to keep the user informed. Use \fB0\fP if no status output
requested. Default: \fB100\fP.
.TP
\fBprojection=\fP
Projection. Valid projections are \fBcartesian\fP, in which 
galactic longitude (l) and latitude (b) are gridded,
\fBnpolar\fP and \fBspolar\fP grid the north-polar and south-polar
cap resp. (\fBxgrid= and ygrid=\fP are also in degrees, and
measure the degrees away from the polar cap), \fBcos\fP and
\fBaitoff\fP.
For \fBnpolar\fP the
galactic center is at the bottom,  running clockwise, for
\fBspolar\fP at the top, running counter clockwise.
[Default: \fBcartesian\fP.
.TP
\fBprojpar=\fP
Optional parameters associated with a projection. Currently only
used for \fBcos\fP and \fBaitoff\fP  where they are used to
override the central longitude (the default being the mean of
xmin and xmax).
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP\fIcomments\fP
Comments added to table/fits file. Default: none.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example lists all scan positions (l, b, ra, dec) for the
(Heiles&Habing) Hat Creek high latitude survey. Note the output is
very large (134932 scans) and has been redirected to a file \fIhh.pos\fP:
.nf

    % hispectrum in=hh > hh.pos
.fi
.PP
This second example extracts a spectrum in the form of an ascii table.
You can plot it using NEMO's \fItabplot\fP program, or go into a mongo-type
program:
.nf

    % hispectrum in=hh lon=45 lat=20 > hh.45.20.spectrum
.fi
.PP
The third example grids a portion of the sky into a VLB 
(velocity-longitude-latitude) FITS cube:
.nf

    % hispectrum in=hh,pk vlsr=-100:100:2 xgrid=200,300,2 ygrid=-30,30,2 \\
        cube=cube1.fits 

.fi
.SH LIMITATIONS
Program is disk space intensive: a scratch file with all
velocity interpolated scans within the ROI 
(Region Of Interest: \fBxgrid, ygrid\fP) will be created; this will
need about \fI4 * nscans * nv\fP bytes. In addition the output datacube
will be \fI 4 * nv * nx * ny\fP in size. \fInx, ny\fP are the
number of pixels in X and Y, \fInv\fP those requested in velocity.
The factor of 4 from the assumption that a C-float needs 4 bytes storage.
.PP
Velocity interpolation is enforced, but when gridding and combining
multiple dataset proper \fBbscale\fP factor's need to be used
to get the correct answer. I.e. each dataset should be multiplied
with the ratio of the channel separation of original divided by
new (interpolated) cube.
.SH BUGS
\fIhispectrum\fP uses an internal fortran-to-c interface, and is unlikely
to work on Unix versions where this is very different from the default
BSD convention. 
.PP
There is no check on available diskspace (scratch spectra plus gridded 
output data cube) before the program starts. To estimate the size of
the scratch file is difficult.
.PP
Although gridding in X and Y is forced to be regular, the one in
V is not forced to be. The CDELT1 written in the FITS file will
be wrong in this case.
.PP
If the number of spectra per pixel is larger than a compiler defined
value (\fBMAXSCAN\fP) the program will crash after all the hard
work of sorting spectra has been done; this will happen  in the middle
of writing the output FITS file.
.PP
Only scans with known format (as defined in \fIhi.h\fP are understood.
No provisions for some free format has been made yet.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +1.5i
$HI_DIR/        	directory, or colon separated searchpath, where the ascii (raw) scans live.
$NEMO/usr/bima/hi  	source code
hiXXXXXX           	scratch file (see mktemp) with scans for the cube gridding
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
hi(5NEMO), fitsio(3NEMO), tabplot(3NEMO), himap(1NEMO), fitstohi(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben, William T. Reach (decode.f)
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
29-Jun-92	V0.0 Created: simple spectrum extraction	PJT
1-jul-92	V0.1 cube gridder - using nearest cells 	PJT
6-jul-92	V0.2 added HI_DIR, deleted nx=, ny=       	PJT
8-nov-92	V0.3 10% faster code, but using 50% more memory	PJT
17-sep-93	V0.6 added mode= for single spectrum search	PJT
2-apr-94	V0.6a fixed bug in WW decoding           	PJT
6-apr-94	V0.7 sigma=0 now default; delete scratchfile	PJT
29-sep-95	V0.8 added npolar/spolar projection options 	PJT
x-mar-96	V0.9 added cosb averagin, gridding options	PJT
.fi
