.TH IDF 1NEMO "15 August 2014"
.SH NAME
idf \- Input Directive File (IDF) processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBidf\fP [parameter=value]  [-- idf_parameter=value ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBidf\fP creates an input parameter file 
by changing selected parameters based on 
an Input Directive File (IDF).  An
IDF describes named and typed input parameters 
meant to supply parameters to a program. This file
then matched to an actual example of this
parameter file, where the parameters are not named
(list a list of numbers). Selected named parameters
can be changed then written out to a new
parameter file in order for an external program to run and
use this parameter file.
.PP
A typical example of use would be where two input files
(foobar.idf and foobar.inp) create an output
file (run1.inp) where two parameters were given a new value:
.nf

    idf foobar.idf foobar.inp run1.inp --  n=100 eps=0.01
    foobar < run1.inp

.fi
but see also the EXAMPLES below.
.PP
For a full description of the format, see \fIidf(5NEMO)\fP
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given, and need to be given before the IDF PARAMETERS (see below)
.TP 20
\fBidf=\fP
Input Directive File.  This file is the template with type and name
information for the parameters. See also \fIidf(5NEMO)\fP.
If none supplied, the internal example is shown
that can be played with. No default.
.TP
\fBpar=\fP
Input parameter file. This file is an example that another program
will use as input file, but where some of the values need to be modified.
If none supplied, only IDF parsing is attempted.
Default: none.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output parameter file. The file contains the changed parameter based
on the new values given to the IDF parameters.
If none supplied, only substituation is attempted,
as long as the input parameter file is given. Default: none
.TP
\fBlineno=t|f\fP
Add linenumbers to IDF output? A debug option [f]   
.TP
\fBchecktype=t|f\fP
Check types (real/integer/string/...). Not implemented yet. [f]
.TP
\fBreport=t|f\fP
Report all key=val pairs for the IDF_parameters. Useful as a reminder [f]
.SH IDF PARAMETERS
The following IDF parameters have to be preceded by the standard
\fB--\fP separator, such that NEMO parsing can stop.
.TP
\fB--\fP
Any parameters after this designator is not parsed by the NEMO command
line processor (see also \fIgetparam(3NEMO)\fP), but the keyword
names are expected to be present in the IDF file.
.TP
\fBkey=\fIval\fP..
Any set of named IDF_parameters can be listed here. Currently very little
parsing checks are done here.
.SH CAVEATS
Open ended array IDF keywords do not use \fInemoinp(1NEMO)\fP style expression yet, .e.g.
you cannot use \fBrad=2:10:2\fP, but instead would need  (csh notation):
.nf
    set rtmp=(`nemoinp 2:10:2`)
    .. rad="$rtmp"
.fi
.PP
IDF keyword do not use \fIgetparam(3NEMO)\fP yet, so interesting constructs such
as \fBrad=@radii.tab\fP cannot be used here.
.SH EXAMPLES
In the following example an integer and real parameter are read by a program from standard input:
.nf

 % cat foobar.idf
 # comments for the 'foobar' program 
 i:n
 r:eps

 % cat foobar.par
 10
 0.05

 % idf foobar.idf foobar.par run1.par -- eps=0.1 

 % cat run1.par
 10
 0.1

 % foobar < run1.par
 ...
.fi
.PP
FORTRAN programs have a variety of styles of getting input parameters. The most common ones that don't use a NAMELIST are:

1) read directly from standard input:   'foobar < foobar.inp'

2) ask for the file that contains the parameters:     'echo foobar.inp | foobar'

3) fixed name, where it expects that file (e.g. foobar.inp) to be present:   'foobar'

In addition, some programs also have little flexibility to change their output filename, which results 
in the usage of a run directory in order for programs to run in parallel.
.SH SEE ALSO
idf(5NEMO), idfio(3NEMO), getparam(3NEMO), run(3NEMO)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3i
src/kernel/io/idfio.c	source code
$NEMODAT/idf/*.idf	Example IDF for various NEMO examples
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +3.0i
12-aug-2014	V0.1 man page written	PJT
13-aug-2014	implemented single open ended array	PJT
.fi
