.TH KING 1NEMO "27 June 1997"
.SH NAME
king \- tabulate Osipkov-Merritt generalization of King model
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBking out=\fPout_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIking\fP tabulates an Osipkov-Merritt-King model.  The output
file, written in binary format, may be used with \fImkommod\fP(1NEMO).
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized:
.TP 24
\fBout=\fP\fIout_file\fP
Write a binary table \fBOsipkovMerrittModel\fP to \fIout_file\fP.
  No default.
.TP
\fBw0=\fP\fIdimensionless central potential\fP
This parameter defines the starting point for the integration of
the corresponding differential equations (see King (1966) or 
Binney & Tremaine (1987)).
  Default: \fB-1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBmass=\fP\fItotal mass of system\fP
Used for calculating the real values from the previously computed
unscaled model.
  Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBrc=\fP\fIcore radius\fP
The core radius is the scaling parameter for the radius. It is defined as
radius at which the surface brightness falls down to half of its initial value.
  Default: \fB1.0\fB
.TP
\fBnsteps=\fP\fInumber of steps\fP
Number of steps to tabulate.
  Default: 101
.TP
\fBepsilon=\fP\fIaccuracy for integration\fP
Epsilon is used to define the precision of the numerical integration
  Default: 1e-6
.TP
\fBtab=\fP\fItable filename\fP
If a filename given, the calculated values will also be tabulated in an 
ASCII-file. If no filename is given, no table is output.
  Default: no table file.
.TP 
\fBg=\fP\fIgravitational constant\fP
to create models with physical quantities, set this constant.
  Default: not used. (as it should be)
.. I (pjt) happen to disagree that this parameter should be present at all
.. Utilities like snapscale can always be used to rescale snapshots, but
.. even this is not a normal practice.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkommod(1NEMO), king(1NEMO), plummer(1NEMO), tablst(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Patrick A. Frisch
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
~/usr/pat	king.c
.fi
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
xx-mar-91	V0.9 Initial coding and testing  	PAF
27-jun-97	V1.0 more scaling options, code cleaning for NEMO V2	PJT/JJM
.fi
