.TH lagrange_radii 1falcON "19 May 2004"

.SH name
lagrange_radii \- find the Lagrange radii of a stellar system

.SH synopsis
\fBlagrange_radii\fP [parameter=value]

requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher, see
http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo.


.SH description
\fBlagrange_radii\fP finds the radii of spheres centred at the
origin \fBx\fP=(0,0,0) that contain a given fraction of the total
mass. The code is significantly faster than a full sort of all
body radii.

\fBlagrange_radii\fP may be used to create a \fBstopfile\fP to trigger
the stopping of a running N-body simulations that is being analysed by
\fBlagrange_radii\fP.

.SH parameters

.TP 16
\fBin=\fP\fIfile\fP
Input snapshots are read from \fIfile\fP, which must be in NEMO
snapshot format. If \fIfile\fP=-, input is expected from stdin,
useful for piping data from another program. Default: \fBrequired\fP
.TP
\fBmasses=\fP\fIlist\fP
The lagrange radii are computed for every fractional mass contained in
the comma separated list (up to 100).  Default:
\fB0.01,0.03,0.1,0.3,0.5,0.7,0.9,0.97,0.99\fP
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime range(s)\fP
Range(s) of simulation times, for which snapshots shall be processed.
Default: \fBall\fP.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIfile\fP
If given, snapshots are written in NEMO snapshot format to
\fIfile\fP with same body data as the input, unless \fBgive\fP
specifies otherwise. No default.
.TP
\fBgive=\fP\fIIOstring\fP
If given, only body data indicated by \fIIOstring\fP (and present in
the input) are written out with the snapshot output. No default.
.TP
\fBstep=\fP\fIval\fP
If snapshots are written out, the outputs are made every \fIval\fP
simulation time units.  If \fIval\fP=0, every snapshot processed is
written out.  Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBtabfile=\fP\fIfile\fP
A table of the simulation time and Lagrange radii (in the order the
fractional masses are given) is written to \fIfile\fP, appending
an existing file, if applicable. If not given, Lagrange radii are
written to stdout. No default.
.TP
\fBstopfile=\fP\fIfile\fP
If given, the a stopfile will be created, IF the condition defined
with the next options is satisfied. See also gyrfalcON(1falcON).
No default.
.TP
\fBstopindex=\fP\fInum\fP
If \fBstopfile\fP is given, R_stop is the \fInum\fPth Lagrange radius.
Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBstopvalue=\fP\fIval\fP
If \fIval\fP>0, the stop condition is R_stop <  \fIval\fP.

If \fIval\fP<0, the stop condition is R_stop > |\fIval\fP|.

No default.
.TP
\fBstoprelative=t|f\fP
If true, use R_stop/R_stop(t_initial) instead of R_stop in the stop
condition. Default: \fBf\fP.
.TP
\fBstopafter=\fP\fIval\fP
If given, do not stop before simulation time \fIval\fP. No default.
.TP
\fBstopdelay=\fP\fIval\fP
Create the \fBstopfile\fP \fIval\fP simulation time units after the
stop condition was first satisfied. Default: \fB0\fP.

.SH remark
Useful for isolated stellar systems only.

.SH see also
density_centre(1falcON), gyrfalcON(1falcON)
.PP

.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf                         \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP
.fi
.SH author
.nf
Walter Dehnen                              walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
18-May-2004	first version of manual  WD
.fi


