.TH LINEID 1NEMO "15 January 2026"

.SH "NAME"
lineid \- identify peaks in a spectrum and optionally identify lines

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBlineid\fP in=file [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBlineid\fP identifies peaks in a spectrum (or peaks can be directly given), 
and attempts to identify spectral lines. The units of the frequency
axis will need to be specified (the default is GHz) in order for the line identification to work.
.PP
It will also inter-operate between sky-freq, rest-freq and doppler velocity.
.PP
Operation can occur in several modes.
.br
1. If the VEL is given, a LineID is attempted. Either from a given
restfreq, or from a linelist.
.br
2. If the RESTFREQ is given, a VEL is determined from the frequency of the
fitted peak.
.br
3. If neither is given, just the peak(s) are reported.
.br
4. A special case can be made when both RESTFREQ and VEL are given, and the x-axis
is given in km/s.  The VEL was computed
from that given (possibly wrong) RESTFREQ, it will then re-compute the sky frequency axis,
and compute rest frequencies and following up with a line ID.
.br
5. The input table can also be a list of already identified peaks (\fBmode=0\fP). The first
line is the one associated with the restfreq, if that's relevant. Appropriate values
(depending on if \fBrestfreq=\fP or \fBvel=\fP is given) are returned for the other lines,
essentially following the 4 cases described in 1-4.
.PP
See also \fItablsqfit(1NEMO)\fP with the option \fBfit=peak\fP, and \fIccdmom(1NEMO)\fP has
an algorithm to find (properties of) the Nth peak using mom=3,30,31,32,33,34
.PP
More sophisticated algorithms can be fond in for example ADMIT's LineID task, in particular
dealing with multiple "spectra" derived from a fits cube.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIfile\fP
Input (table) file name. Should have two columns, but see below for single column
files.
.br
No default.
.TP
\fBxcol=\fP\fIx-column\fP
X coordinate column, representing the frequency or wavelength axis.
Units are GHz, unless specified with the \fBxunit\fP keyword. Column 1 is the first
column.
.br
[1]
.TP
\fBycol=\fP\fIy-column\fP
Y coordinate column, reprepenting an intensity. For mode=0 this column is not used.
.br
[2] 
.TP
\fBxunit=\fP
X axis unit (GHz, MHz, A, nm, km/s, z) -- not all are implemented yet.
.br
[GHz]
.TP
\fBminchan=\fP
Minimum channels for a peak [3]   - not used yet 
.TP
\fBmaxchan=\fP
Maximum channels for a peak []     - not used yet 
.TP
\fBvel=\fP
VEL of object, in km/s, independent of \fBxunit\fP.q
.br
Not set by default.
.TP
\fBrestfreq=\fP
If line is known, give rest frequency in \fBxunit\fP.
.br
Not set by default.
.TP
\fBlinelist=\fP
Table with frequencies and lines. There is a simple list in $NEMODAT/z_lines.list
with some common high-Z lines.
.br
Not set by default.
.TP
\fBdv=\fP
Slop (in km/s) allowed in identifying lines.
Negative values will use nearest neighbor and report the dv.
.br
[10]
.TP
\fBclip=\fP
Do not fit peaks below this clip level.
.br
Default: not used
.TP
\fBmode=0|1\fP
Fitting mode:  0=no fit needed, the xcol already contains the frequencies (or doppler velocities)
of the lines. No ycol is needed (0 can be used)   1=peak fit (see also \fItabpeak(1NEMO)\fP
for more options).
.br
[1]
.TP
\fBvelmode=REL|OPT|RAD\fP
Mode of velocity axis. Relativistic, Optical or Radio.
.br
Not implemented yet.

.SH "CAVEATS"

Currently frequency conversions are done using the \fI(1+z)\fP formula
with \fIz=VEL/c\fP.

The code was developed with frequency in mind, only GHz and km/s are supported. Wavelength
is planned.

Looks for emission lines in mode=1. May not work for absorption lines yet.



.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example generates a random table of 115 values, smoothes by 10 channels to create a handful
of peaks and investigates the strongest peak, which happens to be near 40 "GHz". These all use the default
\fBmode=1\fP:
.EX

  tabgen - 115 1 2 123 | tabsmooth - 1 12 10,5 | lineid - 0 1 
  ### nemo Debug Info: Peak: 40.1222 0.169591

  tabgen - 115 1 2 123 | tabsmooth - 1 12 10,5 | lineid - 0 1 vel=10000
  ### nemo Debug[1]: 1b: Line at 40.122154, Look near freq = 41.460485 GHz for a lineid; vel=10000

  tabgen - 115 1 2 123 | tabsmooth - 1 12 10,5 | lineid - 0 1 restfreq=115
  ### nemo Debug[1]: 1a: Line at 40.122154 GHz has z=1.86625 or vel=559487 km/s (cz)

  ?

  tabgen - 115 1 2 123 | tabsmooth - 1 12 10,5 | tabpeak -  0 1 | lineid - 0 1 mode=0
  ### nemo Debug[1]: 0: 29.913977 0.126778 
  ### nemo Debug[1]: 1: 40.122154 0.169591 
  ### nemo Debug[1]: 2: 72.135190 0.144635 

.EE

and some \fBmode=0\fP examples specifying either velocity or frequency in various modes:

.EX
  echo 5000 | lineid - mode=0 restfreq=1.420405751786 xunit=km/s
  Line at 5000.000000 km/s has skyfreq 1.397105 restfreq 1.420406

  echo 1.420405751786 | lineid - mode=0 vlsr=5000 xunit=GHz
  Line at 1.420406 GHz has skyfreq 1.397105

  echo 1.397105 | lineid - mode=0 restfreq=1.420405751786 xunit=GHz
  Line at 1.397105 GHz has z 0.016678 vlsr 4999.903122 km/s
.EE

and here a mode=0 example on a the CO(1-0) and CO(2-1) lines from the CO ladder, deliberately
doppler shifted a bit by 300 km/s (give or take):

.EX
  nemoinp 110.092,115.155,220.179,230.308  |\\
      lineid - mode=0 linelist=$NEMODAT/z_lines.list vel=300 dv=2.5

  ### nemo Debug[0]: Found 23 lines in the listlist /home/teuben/NEMO/nemo/data/z_lines.list
  # There are 4 restfreq's to identify:
  #    guess    ID    LINE     dFreq    deltaV   NAME
    110.202168   1 110.201354 0.000814 -2.21418  13CO(1-0)
  # 115.270235   2 115.271202 0.000967  2.51514  CO(1-0)
    220.399331   3 220.398680 0.000651 -0.886089 13CO(2-1)
    230.538467   4 230.538000 0.000467 -0.607859 CO(2-1)
.EE

.SH "LINELIST"
The input linelist is a very simple ascii table of (frequency,name).
There are many sources for a linelist, we mention a few:
.nf

1. $NEMO/data/z_lines.list : common high-Z lines, from HI at 1.4GHz upwards

2. ADMIT'S has a few in $ADMIT/etc/*list

3. Splatalogue at https://www.splatalogue.online/

4. Astroquery based:   https://astroquery.readthedocs.io/en/latest/nist/nist.html and
   https://astroquery.readthedocs.io/en/latest/atomic/atomic.html


.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
tablsqfit(1NEMO), tabpeak(1NEMO), tabpp(1NEMO), table(5NEMO)
.PP
admit::LineID_AT()

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.25i +4.5i
13-dec-2024	0.1 Draft created	PJT
3-jul-2025	0.3 add mode=	PJT
15-jan-2026	0.4 added simple nearest neighbor line_id	PJT
.fi
