.TH MARTELSNAP 1NEMO "1 July 2001"
.SH NAME
martelsnap \- convert Martel "pos-vel" dump files to snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmartelsnap\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmartelsnap\fP converts a simple binary (fortran) dump of 
phase space coordinates into a standard \fPsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP
formatted file. These files are amongst created by Hugo Martel's
software, although are generally useful for any N-body code.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input Martel file. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output snapshot file. No default.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP
Max number of particles. Default: 262144.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
Random verbiage      
.TP
\fBswap=t|f\fP
Swap the real (float) numbers. This is needed if the data were produced on
a machine with a different endianism from where you are processing it.
[Default: f]
.SH SEE ALSO
unfio(1NEMO), bswap(1NEMO)
.PP
http://xxx.lanl.gov/abs/astro-ph/9903210
.SH FORMAT
Data format is a simple binary dump of the single precision
coordinates and velocities of all particles,
the following snippet of fortran-77 code would produce such files:
.nf
    REAL x(N),y(N),z(N),vx(N),vy(N),vz(N),
    OPEN(10,FILE='posvel.dat',STATUS='new',FORM='unformatted')
    WRITE(10) x,y,z,vx,vy,vx
    CLOSE(10)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
19-Mar-99	V1.0 Created   	PJT
29-jun-01	V1.1 added swap=	PJT
1-jul-01	V1.1a   major bug: posvel matrix was never transposed...	PJT
.fi
