.TH MILLER 1NEMO "12 Jul 1994"
.SH NAME
miller \- convert Miller's (ascii) plot file to snapshot format
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmiller\fP \fBin=\fP\fIplot_file\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmiller\fP converts \fImiller(5NEMO)\fP (ascii) plot
files to NEMO \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input file name. Must be in \fImiller(5NEMO)\fP ascii  plot file format.
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output file name, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. If no
name given, the input plot file is scanned.
Default: none.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
Random mumblage for humans. This would overwrite the run_id that is
stored in the header of the plot file. Default: none.
.SH DEFICIENCIES
You can only read \fImiller(5NEMO)\fP files, not write them.
.PP
Since the input format does not contain velocity information,
the output snapshot file has zero velocities. By differencing
two adjacent snapshots, this program could derive velocities
compute new positions at the midpoint. This is currently not
done.
.PP
No snapshot selection yet. Keywords \fBtimes=\fP (to select by
time ranges) and \fBselect=\fP (to select by snapshot numbers) are 
anticipated for this.
.PP
Reading is done rather liberally. For example, the header is assumed
to contain a run id (a string on the first non-blank line), followed
by 30 integers and 32 reals. The data (4 integers per line) is followed
by two blank lines, but the number of blank lines is actually irrelevant
(could even be 0).
.SH SEE ALSO
tabtos(1NEMO), miller(5NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
12-jul-94	V1.0 Created	Peter Teuben
.fi
