.TH MKBAREDISK 1NEMO "
.SH NAME
mkbaredisk \- make an exponential disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkbaredisk out=\fPout_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImkbaredisk\fP makes an N-body realization of an exponential disk,
assuming no other mass distribution is present.  Such disks are wildly
unstable, but fun to play with.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBout=\fP\fIout_file\fP
Write to \fIout_file\fP in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) form.
Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fInum_bodies\fP
Usual number of particles. Default: \fB1024\fP.
.TP
\fBalpha=\fP\fIdisk_alpha\fP
Inverse exponential scale length of disk. Default: \fB4.0\fP.
.TP
\fBrcut=\fP\fIdisk_cutoff\fP
Outer cutoff radius of disk. Default: \fB1.25\fP.
.TP
\fBmdisk=\fP\fIdisk_mass\fP
Total disk mass. Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBQtoomre=\fP\fIdisk_Q_value\fP
Toomre's Q parameter for disk. Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBgamma=\fP\fIfudge_factor\fP
Used when correcting for pressure support. Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBepsi=\fP\fIsoftening_parameter\fP
Softening, which sets the vertical scale of the disk.
Default: \fB0.025\fP.
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fIrandom_seed\fP
Usual random number seed. Default: \fB12345\fP.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP\fImessage\fP
Text headline for output. Default: \fInone\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mktestdisk(1NEMO), mkexpdisk(1NEMO), mkexphot(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +2i
2-jun-88	V1.0 original version       	JEB
29-mar-97	V2.0 SINGLEPREC, ndisk= now nbody=	PJT






