.TH MKCONFIG 1NEMO "5 August 2023"

.SH "NAME"
mkconfig \- make a static configuration of particles.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBmkconfig out=\fPin_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fImkconfig\fP creates a configuration of particles with specified
shape in position space and zero velocities.
.PP
If you have a simple ASCII table of phase space coordinates, see \fItabtos(1NEMO)\fP
how to convert this to a \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP.
.SH "PARAMETERS"

.so man1/parameters
.TP 24
\fBout=\fP\fIout_file\fP
Output file,  in \fIsnapshot\fP format.  Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fInum_bodies\fP
Number of particles in configuration.  Default: \fB512\fP.
.TP
\fBshape=\fP\fIconfiguration\fP
Name of configuration to generate; currently \fBshell\fP, \fBball\fP,
\fBcusp\fP, \fBline\fP, or \fBring\fP.  Default: \fBshell\fP.
.TP
\fBradius=\fP\fIconfig_radius\fP
Specify size of configuration.  Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fIrandom_seed\fP
Seed used to initialize random number generator. Default: \fB123\fP.
.TP
\fBmass=\fP\fItotal_mass\fP
Total mass of the system . Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBzerocm=\fP\fIzero_cm_flag\fP
If set, translate origin to center of mass of configuration.
Default: \fBfalse\fP.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP\fImessage\fP
Message prepended to \fIout_file\fP.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkconfig(1NEMO), snapfold(1NEMO), mkommod(1NEMO), mk2body(1NEMO), tabtos(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Joshua E. Barnes

.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
2-jun-88	document created?	JEB
8-jul-90	V0.x nobj->nbody, new snapshot macro's  	PJT
6-may-2010	V1.0 added mass=	PJT
.fi
