.TH mkdehnen 1falcON "18 May 2004"
.SH name
mkdehnen \- initial conditions from a Dehnen model (public version)

.SH synopsis
\fBmkdehnen\fP [parameter=value]

.SH requirement
requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher, see http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo.

.SH description
\fBmkdehnen\fP creates N-body initial conditions from an isotropic Dehnen (1993)
model, which has density
.nf

	          3-gamma            M * r_s
	rho(r) = --------- -------------------------------,
	                      gamma           (4-gamma)
	            4*Pi     r      * (r + r_s) 

.if

with total mass M and scale radius r_s.

.SH parameters

.TP 12
\fBout=\fP\fIfile\fP
The initial conditions are written in NEMO snapshot format to \fIfile\fP.
If \fIfile\fP=-, output is made to stdout. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fInum\fP
The initial conditions will contain \fInum\fP body masses, positions,
and velocities. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBgamma=\fP\fIval\fP
The inner logarithmic slope of the Dehnen model is set to \fIval\fP.
Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBmass=\fP\fIval\fP
The total mass of the Dehnen sphere is set to \fIval\fP. Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBr_s=\fP\fIval\fP
The scale radius of the Dehnen sphere is set to \fIval\fP. Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fInum\fP
We will use \fInum\fP as seed for the (pseudo-) random number generator.
If \fInum\fP=0, a unique new seed is created from the current value of
the time, otherwise, the seed actually provided is used. Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBq_ran=t|f\fP
If true, we use quasi-random rather than pseudo-random numbers for
drawing position and angles in velocity space. Pseudo-random numbers
are still used in the rejection-method to draw the total velocity from
the DF. Default: \fBf\fP.
.TP
\fBtime=\fP\fIval\fP
The simulation time associated with the initial conditions is set to \fIval\fP.
Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBf_pos=\fP\fIval\fP
The fraction of bodies with positive sense of rotation
about the z-axis is set to \fIval\fP. Default: \fB0.5\fP.
.TP
\fBrmax=\fP\fIval\fP
If given, only bodies with radius < \fIval\fP are created.
No default.
.TP
\fBWD_units=t|f\fP
If true, units for \fBmass\fP and \fBr_s\fP will be taken as solar
mass and kpc, respectively, but output units will be in kpc (positions),
kpc/Gyr (velocities), and 222288.47 solar masses (implying Newton's G=1).
Default: \fBf\fP.

.SH see also
mkplum(1falcON), mkking(1falcON)
.PP
.nf
Dehnen, W., 1993, MNRAS, 265, 250

.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf                         \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP
.fi
.SH author
.nf
Walter Dehnen                              walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
18-May-2004	first version of manual  WD
.fi


