.TH MKDISKFEL 1NEMO "31 December 2019"
.SH NAME
mkdiskfel \- set up a test disk in a spherical potential filling f(E,Lz)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkdiskfel out=\fPsnapshot [parameters=values ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImkdiskfel\fP sets up a disk of test particles launched from a specific
axis (\fBx\fP or \fBy\fP)
in the gravitational potential of a user-supplied potential (in
\fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP format), in order to get a reasonable sample
of all possible orbits in the allowed phase space of bound orbits.
The initial condition will thus look very boring,
and after an integration with programs such as  \fIpotcode(1NEMO)\fP
and further analysis things will make more sense.
.PP
For testing there is an option to only populate particles on a "maxlz" orbit. For
symmetric potentials these are the closed loop orbits, for core-harmonic but
non-axisymmetric these approach the loop orbits outside the core, but of course
cannot follow the bifurcation within the core.  Need a cute figure to show this.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 25
\fBout=\fIout_file\fP
The data are written to this file in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP 
format . Currently the potential and total energy are stored in the
Potential and Aux slots of the snapshot. [no default].
.TP
\fBnbody=\fInum_bodies\fP
Number of bodies particles [default: \fB2048\fP]
.TP
\fBpotname=\fIpotential_name\fP
name of the \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP.
[no default].
.TP
\fBpotpars=\fIpot_pars\fP
Paramaters to the user supplied potential. The number of parameters
depends on the potential supplied, the first parameter is reserved
for the pattern speed.
[default: not supplied, parameters as defined by potential(5)].
.TP
\fBpotfile=\fIpot_data\fP
Optional data file(s) to the user supplied potential. 
The number of files depends
on the potential supplied.
[default: not supplied, or datafile(s) defined by potential(5)].
.TP
\fBrmin=\fImin_disk_radius\fP
Inner cutoff radius of test-particle disk. [Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBrmax=\fImax_disk_radius\fP
Outer cutoff radius of test-particle disk. [Default: \fB2\fP].
.TP
\fBemin=\fImin_energy\fP
Minimum energy of orbits. If a value is given, this currently
triggers emax=emin and all orbits will be sampled at this
energy. 
.TP
\fBemax=\fImax_energy\fP
Maximum energy of orbits.
.TP
\fBmass=\fItot_mass\fP
Total mass of the disk. The default total mass is 0, since this is a
testdisk. Since there are a few programs that will not like mass-less
particles, this keyword can be used, or \fIsnapmass\fP
will have to be used before further action is taken.
[default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fIrandom_seed\fP
Use random number seed. If 0 is given, a random number is generated
from the time of the day. [default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBsign=-1|1\fP
Sign of the angular momentum. 1 means counter clockwise rotation in the
XY-plane (in case you were wondering, 
our galaxy has sign=-1). [Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBlaunch=x|y\fP
Launch axis. Since all orbits are in the X-Y plane, the options here
are \fBx\fP or \fBy\fP.
.TP
\fBmaxlz=t|f\fP
Try and find only the maxlz orbits per energy/radius. 
.TP
\fBheadline=\fImessage\fP
Text headline for output file [default: not used].
.SH EXAMPLES
Plotting the initial conditions in a few phase-plot types for both a "maxlz" orbits alone, and the
more fully samples phase space is done as follows. The first three are the "maxlz" (circular) orbits:
.nf

  mkdiskfel - 2048 rmin=0.1 rmax=2  maxlz=t | snapplot - xvar=y yvar=-vx xrange=0:2 yrange=0:1.6 yapp=1/xs
  mkdiskfel - 2048 rmin=0.1 rmax=2  maxlz=t | snapplot - xvar=etot yvar=jtot xrange=-1:-0.2 yrange=0:1.6 yapp=2/xs
  mkdiskfel - 2048 rmin=0.1 rmax=2  maxlz=t | snapplot - xvar=y  yvar=etot xrange=0:2 yrange=-1:-0.2 yapp=3/xs  

  mkdiskfel - 2048 rmin=0.1 rmax=2          | snapplot - xvar=y yvar=-vx xrange=0:2 yrange=0:1.6 yapp=11/xs
  mkdiskfel - 2048 rmin=0.1 rmax=2          | snapplot - xvar=etot yvar=jtot xrange=-1:-0.2 yrange=0:1.6 yapp=12/xs
  mkdiskfel - 2048 rmin=0.1 rmax=2          | snapplot - xvar=y  yvar=etot xrange=0:2 yrange=-1:-0.2 yapp=13/xs  

.fi
where in the last plot (13) you can clearly see the uniform sampling in E-r space.
.PP
In the example below we explore non-axisymmetric potentials, non-rotating.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkdisk(1NEMO), mktestdisk(1NEMO), orbint(1NEMO), potcode(1NEMO)
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +4.5i
31-dec-2019	V0.1  drafted during the Top-2000	PJT
1-jan-2020	V0.4  finished sampling in E-r space	PJT
2-jan-2020	V0.5  added emin= option to sample orbits at one energy		PJT
.fi
