.TH MKDISK 1NEMO "13 December 2017"
.SH NAME
mkdisk \- create a uniform-density test disk in an external potential
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkdisk out=\fPsnapshot [parameters=values ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImkdisk\fP sets up a uniform
``cold'' disk of test particles orbiting counter
clockwise (but see \fBsign=\fP below) 
in the gravitational potential of a user-supplied potential (in
\fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP format).
.PP
An input (snapshot) dataset can be given, in which case the positions are 
taken from this input file.
.PP
See \fImktabdisk(1NEMO)\fP for a test disk with more parameters: the
density, velocity and dispersion are specified by a table as function
of radius. Totally unphysical.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 25
\fBout=\fIout_file\fP
The data are written to this file in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP 
format . Currently the potential and total energy are stored in the
Potential and Aux slots of the snapshot. [no default].
.TP
\fBnbody=\fInum_bodies\fP
Number of bodies particles [default: \fB2048\fP]
.TP
\fBpotname=\fIpotential_name\fP
name of the potential, see \fB$NEMOOBJ/potential\fP for the current
object repository. The user can supply his own, see \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP.
[no default].
.TP
\fBpotpars=\fIpot_pars\fP
Paramaters to the user supplied potential. The number of parameters
depends on the potential supplied, the first parameter is reserved
for the pattern speed.
[default: not supplied, parameters as defined by potential(5)].
.TP
\fBpotfile=\fIpot_data\fP
Optional data file(s) to the user supplied potential. 
The number of files depends
on the potential supplied.
[default: not supplied, or datafile(s) defined by potential(5)].
.TP
\fBrmin=\fImin_disk_radius\fP
Inner cutoff radius of test-particle disk. [Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBrmax=\fImax_disk_radius\fP
Outer cutoff radius of test-particle disk. [Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBmass=\fItot_mass\fP
Total mass of the disk. The default total mass is 0, since this is a
testdisk. Since there are a few programs that will not like mass-less
particles, this keyword can be used, or \fIsnapmass\fP
will have to be used before further action is taken.
[default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBfrac=\fIfraction\fP
The fraction that the local velocity dispersion has w.r.t.
the local rotation velocity. If a number is given, radial and tangential velocity are
by default taken to be the same, with no Z-velocities. If two numbers are given,
the first one is the radial dispersion, the second one the tangential
(currently wihtout any 2*Omega/Kappa correction), and the Z dispersion 0.
Finally, when 3 numbers are given, random motions in Z are also added.
[Default: \fB0\fP]
.TP
\fBseed=\fIrandom_seed\fP
Use random number seed. If 0 is given, a random number is generated
from the time of the day. [default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBsign=-1|1\fP
Sign of the angular momentum. 1 means counter clockwise rotation in the
XY-plane (in case you were wondering, 
our galaxy has sign=-1). [Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBin=\fIinfile\fP
Input file, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format, of which the positions
are used as initial conditions. [Default: not used].
*** \fI lost the implementation ** \fP
.TP
\fBangle=t|f\fP
Normally the particles are distributed randomly in phase, but setting this
to true, they will be regularly spread between 0 and TWO_PI. 
Default: f
.TP
\fBvrad=\fP
A constant radial velocity (>0 means outward motion) added to all particles.
Default: 0.
.TP
\fBenergy=t|f\fP
If random motions are added (see frac=), the energy of each particle will
change. By setting \fBenergy=t\fP the energy is conserved and the "circular"
speed will be reduced. This way the guiding center for epicyclic orbits
will also be conserved. Note that this only applies to motion in XY.
For stars with too much random motion (if \fBfrac\fP too high), the
random number generator is run again to ensure conserving the planar
motion kinetic energy. Default: false.
.TP
\fBabs=\fP
Use absolute value of velocity dispersion instead of fractional
.TP
\fBz0=z0_d,z0_v\fP
Scaleheight for density dropoff, and circular velocity dropoff. Default: 0,0
.TP
\fBvloss=\fP
(deprecated) Fractional loss in circular streaming as z increased. Use z0_v now.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fImessage\fP
Text headline for output file [default: not used].
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mktestdisk(1NEMO), mktabdisk(1NEMO), mktt72(1NEMO), mkbaredisk(1NEMO), snapcenter(1NEMO), snapfold(1NEMO), snapspin(1NEMO)
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +4.5i
xx-feb-87	coding, still debugging  	PJT
21-Apr-87	V1.0: coding seems OK     	PJT
28-Apr-87	V1.1: keyword manss= added	PJT
8-feb-89	V2.0: new implementation using potential(5)	PJT
12-may-90	V3.0: new keywords for potential(5)	PJT
12-mar-91	V4.0: NEMO 2.x    	PJT
9-jul-91	corrected a few lies in the documentation	PJT
22-oct-91	V4.1: added in= optional input file      	PJT
12-jun-92	V4.2: nbody= is now second parameter, lost in=	PJT
5-may-03	V4.4: added random Z motions by using frac=	PJT
8-may-03	V4.5: added energy=	PJT
13-dec-2017	V4.9: abs,z0,vloss= added	PJT
.fi
