.TH MKEXPDISK 1NEMO "16 April 2009"
.SH NAME
mkexpdisk \- make an exponential disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkexpdisk out=\fPout_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImkexpdisk\fP makes an N-body realization of an exponential disk,
assuming no other mass distribution is present.  Such disks are wildly
unstable, but fun to play with. It can also produce tables that as function
of radius prints out various properties of the streaming velocities and
velocity dispersion.
.PP
Disks will by rotating counter-clockwise, i.e. positive angular momentum.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBout=\fP\fIout_file\fP
Write to \fIout_file\fP in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) form.
Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fInum_bodies\fP
Usual number of particles. Default: 1024.
.TP
\fBalpha=\fP\fIdisk_alpha\fP
Inverse exponential scale length of disk. Default: \fB4.0\fP.
.TP
\fBrcut=\fP\fIdisk_cutoff\fP
Outer cutoff radius of disk. Default: \fB1.25\fP.
.TP
\fBmdisk=\fP\fIdisk_mass\fP
Total disk mass. Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBQtoomre=\fP\fIdisk_Q_value\fP
Toomre's Q parameter for disk.  For mode=1 this is constant over the disk
for mode=2 it is ignored and z0 determines the velocity dispersions.
Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBgamma=\fP\fIfudge_factor\fP
Used when correcting for pressure support (asymmetric drift)
When negative attempt is made to use correct radial dependance
of gamma. By setting this negative, another relationship is used
to ensure positive streaming.
Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBz0=\fP\fIz_scaleheight\fP
Softening, which sets the vertical scale of the disk. See also
\fBzmode=\fP below. For gauss z0/2 is used, for exp and sech^2
z0 is used.
Default: \fB0.025\fP.
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fIrandom_seed\fP
Usual random number seed. Default: \fB12345\fP.
.TP
\fBmode=\fP\fIcreation-mode\fP
Creation mode. 1=As original (in \fBmkbaredisk\fP), 2=vdKruit/Searle isothermal sech-square sheet. 
[default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBzmode=\fP\fIzdensity-mode\fP
Mode for drawing particles in Z. 1=As original (in \fBmkbaredisk\fP), 2=exponential   3=sech^2 (v/d Kruit & Searle)
[default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBtime=\fP
If given,  this will be the time tagged with this snapshot. 
[default: 0.0].
.TP
\fBtab=\fP\fIt|f\fP
Logical set if additional table output is wanted. If so, its printing
\fIr,m,v_c,omega,kappa,Aoort,mu,sig_r,sig_t,sig_z,v_eff,Qtoomre,\fP
\fIsig_t/sig_r,sig_z/sig_r,factor\fP. [default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBzerocm=\fP\fIt|f\fP
Center the snapshot? [Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP\fImessage\fP
Text headline for output. Default: \fInone\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkbaredisk(1NEMO), mktestdisk(1NEMO), mkkd95(1NEMO), mkexphot(1NEMO), magalie(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes, Peter Teuben
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
1990		cloned off mkbaredisk	PJT
29-may-01	added time=	PJT
16-apr-09	cleanup of Z and added zmode=	PJT
.fi










