.TH MKEXPHOT 1NEMO "22 July 1991"
.SH NAME
mkexphot \- make an exponential disk (hot) embedded in a halo
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkexphot out=\fPout_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImkexphot\fP makes an N-body realization of a hot exponential disk.
It lives inside an assumed dark halo. To evolve such a model the
halo has to be made seperately and added to the output snapshot,
or an N-body integrator which can handle a fixed external analytical
potential, like \fIhackcode3\fP, must be used.
.PP
The input file is an ASCII table, 
consisting of two lines with header information, and for each radius
local information of the disk and halo. It is described in more
detail below.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBin=\fP\fIin_table\fP
Table with as a function of radius the density, various
radial forces and velocity dispersions. If \fIin_table\fP is not
found in the current working directory, the directory \fB$NEMO/data\fP
is also searched [No default].
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIout_file\fP
The exponential disk is written to \fIout_file\fP 
in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. [No default]
.TP
\fBtest=\fP\fItest_file\fP
Optional input snapshot file. If provided, the particles 
in this file are used to define the positions. The keyword \fBnbody\fP
is then not used, but taken from this input file.
[default: \fInot-used\fP].
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fInum_bodies\fP
Number of particles for the disk. Only used when \fItest_file\fP not
provided.
[Default: \fB1024\fP].
.TP
\fBrmin=\fP\fIdisk_cutoff\fP
Inner cutoff radius of disk. [Default: \fB0.0\fP].
.TP
\fBrmax=\fP\fIdisk_cutoff\fP
Outer cutoff radius of disk. [Default: \fB25.0\fP].
.TP
\fBratio=\fP\fIsigma-ratio\fP
Ratio used to convert vertical velocity dispersion into
radial velocity dispersion. [Default: \fB2???\fP].
.TP
\fBrcsig=\fP\fIsigma-scale\fP
Scalelenght used in conversion from vertical velocity dispersion
into radial velocity dispersion [Default: \fB1???\fP].
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fIrandom_seed\fP
Random number seed. [Default: \fB0\fP.]
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP\fImessage\fP
Additional random verbiage headline for output file. 
[Default: \fInone\fP.]
.TP
\fBfhalo=\fIfraction\fP
Force a different mass fraction of halo to disk. This is not
recommended, since the proper value is taken from the input
table. A different value will most likely not produce a well
behaved disk. [default: not used]
.SH TABLE FORMAT
The table is plain ASCII. First two lines are header information, 
followed by a table of information for each radius.
.nf
\fB  nrad, rout, h, z0, dens0\fP
\fB  vhmax, rhcore, q2i, dkmass, hamass\fB
\fB  radius, densit, frdis0, frhal0, frtot0, frdis2, frhal2, frtot2,
         vdisk, vhalo, vrot, sigmad, sigmah, sigmaz\fP
.fi
.PP
The first line contains information for the exponential disk: 
\fBnrad\fP = number of radii in table,
\fBrout\fP = outer radius, 
\fBh\fP = disk scale-lenght, 
\fBz0\fP = disk vertical scaleheight, and 
\fBdens0\fP = central disk density.
.PP
The second line contains information for the halo:
\fBvhmax\fP = maximum halo velocity, 
\fBrhcore\fP = halo core radius, 
\fBq2i\fP = halo flattening parameter,
\fBdkmass\fP = disk mass (actually redundant), and 
\fBhamass\fP = the halo mass. 
.PP
The q2i parameter is currently not used.
.PP
All subsequent \fBnrad\fP lines contain: 
the radius, density, radial force of disk,
halo and sum, second radial force of disk, halo and sum, 
rotational velocity of disk, halo and sum and finally the velocity
dispersion in disk, halo and z. See code for more details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkexpdisk(1NEMO), mkkd95.c(1NEMO)
.PP
\fIN-Body realizations of compound galaxies\fP,
Hernquist, L. (ApJ Suppl, \fB86\fP:389-400, 1993 June)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
src/nbody/init	mkexphot.c
dat           	expmodel.inp (example input table)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Stefano Casertano (Fortran version), Peter Teuben (C version)
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
xx-xxx-8x	Created in the Dark Ages        	Stefano
xx-sep-90	Adapted for Nemo, converted into C	PJT/RAG
23-oct-90	Fake different halo/disk ratio   	PJT
22-jul-91	doc improvements - formalized IMSL interface	PJT
.fi









