.TH MKFLOWDISK 1NEMO "13 December 2003"
.SH NAME
mkflowdisk \- test particle disk with optional kinematic spirals, based on a flow potential
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkflowdisk out=\fPsnapshot [parameters=values ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImkflowdisk\fP sets up a two-dimensional disk of test particles 
in a user-supplied flow potential (in standard \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP format). 
Optionally the surface density of particles can mimic that of a logarithmic
spiral, and thus create a kinematic spiral.
.PP
\fIsnapmass(1NEMO)\fP and \fIsnapcenter(1NEMO)\fP have to be used if
for some reason the user want finite mass particles and a perfectly
centered set of particles.
.PP
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 25
\fBout=\fIout_file\fP
The data are written to this file in \fISnapShot(5NEMO)\fP 
format [no default].
.TP
\fBnbody=\fInum_bodies\fP
Number of disk particles [default: \fB2048\fP]
.TP
\fBpotname=\fIpotential_name\fP
name of the potential, see $NEMOOBJ/potential for the current
repository. The user can supply his own, see potential(5NEMO).
[default: \fBvrtm51\fP].
.TP
\fBpotpars=\fIpot_pars\fP
Parameters to the user supplied potential. The number of parameters
depends on the potential supplied, the first parameter is reserved
for a pattern speed.
[default: not supplied, parameters are defaulted by how they are defined in the 
potential(5NEMO) code].
.TP
\fBpotfile=\fIpot_file\fP
Data_file(s) to the user supplied flow potential. 
The number of files depends on the potential supplied. It
is important the "potential" should be a linear measure of
the requested surface density of particles in the disk.
.TP
\fBrmin=\fImin_disk_radius\fP
Inner cutoff radius of test-particle disk. [Default: \fB0.0\fP].
.TP
\fBrmax=\fImax_disk_radius\fP
Outer cutoff radius of test-particle disk. [Default: \fB1.0\fP].
.TP
\fBmass=\fIdisk_mass\fP
Total mass of the disk. Default: 0.0.
.TP
\fBuniform=t|f\fP
Override the densities from the flow potential and create a uniform disk?
Default: f.
.TP
\fBk=\fIinv_rad\fP
Wavenumber of the spiral pattern, such that \fB2.pi.k.r\fP is the phase of
the spiral density maximum.  Positive \fB\fP means a \fItrailing spiral pattern\fP.
The wavenumber is related to the pitch angle at a given radius: 
tan(pitch) = 1/(2.pi.k.r).
k=0 should be used for an axisymmetric disk. No default. 
.TP
\fBpitch=\fIinv_rad\fP
Note that pitch=0 is not allowed, use \fBk=0\fP for axisymmetric disks.
No default, either \fBk=\fP or \fBpitch=\fP must be used.
.TP
\fBphase=\fIphase_offset\fP
Phase offset of the spiral at the outer radius (rmax) of the disk, in degrees.
[Default: 0.0]
.TP
\fBkey=\fIkey_value\fP
If used, this will be the integer that is stored in the \fIKey\fP field
of a snapshot. Default: not used. 
.TP
\fBseed=\fIrandom_seed\fP
Use random number seed. A zero seed will generate a system-time
dependant seed. See \fIxrandom(3NEMO)\fP [default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBnmodel=\fP\fIn_models\fP
Number of output models. [Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBsign=-1|1\fP
Change sign of the Z-angular momentum. Is set to -1, it will flip the sign of all velocities
are determined from the potential flow. Note that even with sign=1 the disk can have negative
angular momentum, since the native angular momentum is determined from the
potential. [Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBtest=t|f\fP
In test mode all stars are placed at phase 0, and should thus trace the shape
at phase 0 at one arm of spiral. 
By default particles are spread around phase according to the
density distribution as returned by the potential in the flow potential
descriptor. Default: f.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fImessage\fP
Text headline for output file [default: not used].
.SH "CAVEATS"
The current implementation assumes the density is defined along the
angular coordinate, since it can currently only do a one-dimensional
interpolation. A radial dependance is not possible yet.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkspiral(1NEMO), mkdisk(1NEMO), snapmass(1NEMO), snapcenter(1NEMO), flowcode(1NEMO), potential(5NEMO)
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
18-nov-03	V1.0  created                   	PJT
20-nov-03	V1.1 changed some sign conventions	PJT
23-nov-03	V1.3 added key=				PJT
13-dec-03	V1.4 added sign=	PJT
.fi
