.TH MKGRID 1NEMO "6 May 2025"

.SH "NAME"
mkgrid \- create a cube of equal massive stars equally spaced in space

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBmkgrid\fP \fBout=\fP\fIsnapshot\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBmkgrid\fP generates a distribution of particles in a cube on a
regular lattice.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
Output file name, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. 
.br
No default.
.TP
\fBngrid=\fP
Number of particles per axis
.br
[Default: \fB2\fP].
.TP
\fBsize=\fP
Size of cube. 
.br
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBzerocm=t|f\fP
Center c.o.m. ? 
.br
[Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
Text headline for output    
.br
Default: none.
.TP
\fBnmodel=\fP\fIinteger\fP
Number of models to generate. All models will be different here.
Although mostly meant for benchmarks,
generating more then 1 model can be useful to process very large
snapshots (that normally won't fit in memory) in a serialized fashion. See
also \fIsnapsplit\fP. Most NEMO programs will only read the first
snapshot. See also \fBmkgrid nmodel=\fP for a faster way to benchmark.
.br
[Default: \fB1\fP]


.SH "EXAMPLES"
The curious \fBnmodel=\fP parameter was added for benchmarking the creation of large files. Very large Nbody snapshots
would likely not fit in memory, so this routine writes more (otherwise identical) snapshots. There is a similar keyword
in \fImkplummer(1NEMO)\fP but the CPU overhead is killing the I/O bottleneck one likes to see with this keyword.
.PP
Here are examples of making 1000 snapshot of 1e6 particles each, totalling 5GB with both mkgrid and mkplummer, showing
the impact of the CPU.

.EX
/usr/bin/time mkgrid  c1M 100 nmodel=100
1.61user 3.85system 0:29.52elapsed 18%CPU

/usr/bin/time mkgrid  .   100 nmodel=100
1.17user 1.21system 0:02.39elapsed 99%CPU

/usr/bin/time mkplummer  p1M 1000000 nmodel=100
25.31user 6.36system 0:56.65elapsed 55%CPU

/usr/bin/time mkplummer  . 1000000 nmodel=100
24.29user 4.47system 0:28.78elapsed 99%CPU 

.EE


.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkcube(1NEMO), mkplummer(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)

.SH "AUTHOR"
J.J. Fleck

.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.25i +4.5i
20-dec-05	created		JJF
6-may-2025	added nmodel=	PJT
.fi
