.TH MKH41 1NEMO "23 July 2009"
.SH NAME
mkh41 \- Create a Holmberg 1941 disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkh41\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmkh41\fP creates a disk of particles similar to the one 
used in Holmberg's 1941
paper (1941ApJ....94..385H).
Currently each ring is placed in a separate snapshot. Use
\fIsnapmerge(1NEMO)\fP if they must be in a single snapshot.
.PP
The disk is rotating counter clock wise by default, but with totally fake velocities. 
See the example below to assign more realistic velocities.
.PP
The disk quoted in the 1941 paper has a mass of 10^11 solar masses, and a diameter
of 2300 pc.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
output file name, each ring will be in a separate \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP. Use
\fIsnapmerge(1NEMO)\fP to merge the rings into a single snapshot. No Default.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP
number of particles for each ring. [Default: 1,6,8,10,12]
.TP
\fBradius=\fP
radii of rings. The number of rings must match that of \fBnbody=\fP.
[Default: 0,1,2,3,4]
.TP
\fBmass=\fP
Mass of a particle in each ring. The number of rings must match that of \fBnbody=\fP.
[Default: 1.0,1.0,1.0,0.7,0.3]
.TP
\fBphi=\fP
The position angle of the first particle in each ring, 0 being along the Y axis
to match the H41 disk as shown in Fig 3b. 
The number of rings must match that of \fBnbody=\fP.
[Default: 0,0,0,0,0]
.TP
\fBsign=-1|1\fP
Sign  of the angular momentum. 1 means counter
clockwise rotation.
[Default: 1].
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
verbiage for output []    
.SH CAVEAT
It is hard to create the exact same initial conditions as in the
H41 paper, as not enough details are provided.
Also, Figure 4a/b seem to suggest that the inner 7 points are not even
acted upon self consistently, but just following the path of the galaxy.
.PP
A set of French Curves is not used for this program.
.SH EXAMPLES
Since this program does not properly compute rotational velocities, and
because each ring is in a separate snapshot, it is somewhat cumbersome
to create the actual initial conditions for a true Holmberg 1941 disk:
.nf

mkh41 -  |\
  snapmerge - - |\
  snapcenter - - m |\
  hackforce - - tol=0.001 fcells=2 |\
  snapdisk - h41.in


.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
mkconfig(1NEMO), mktt72(1NEMO), mkdisk(1NEMO), snapscale(1NEMO), snapstack(1NEMO)
.PP
Holmberg, E. (1941) - \fI On the clustering tendencies among the nebulae\fP. ApJ. 94, 385.
.PP
Lindblad, P.O. (1960) - \fIThe development of spiral structure in a galaxy approached by numerical computations\fP
http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1960StoAn..21....4L
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben, Alar Toomre
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
15-Jul-2009	V1.0 Created at PiTP (IAS @ Princeton)	PJT + AT
22-jul-2009	V1.1 added sign=	PJT
.fi
