.TH MKHERNQUIST 1NEMO "17 May 2023"

.SH "NAME"
mkhernquist \- create a two-component, isotropic, spherical galaxy+halo Hernquist model

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBmkhernquist\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBmkhernquist\fP
generates a two-component, isotropic, spherical galaxy/halo model using a
superposition of two Hernquist models.  The galaxy is assumed to be a
unit Hernquist model with M=a=1 while the halo mass and scale radius are
free parameters specified on the command line.  The distribution
function is calculated on the fly using Eddington's formula and then
sampled to generate a N-body realization of a galaxy.  The galaxy and
halo particles are dumped in succession -- first half are galaxy
particles. 
.PP
If a single component model is needed, use \fBm=a=1\fP (which is the default).
.PP
Hernquist models are a special case of Dehnen models with \fBgamma=1\fP. See
\fImkdehnen(1NEMO)\fP.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
Output \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP file name. No default.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP
Total number of particles. This needs to be an even number,
as an equal number of particles is used for each component.
No default.
.TP
\fBm=\fP
Mass of Halo (where the galaxy has mass=1) [1]   
.TP
\fBa=\fP
Scale length of Halo (where the galaxy has radius=1) [1]  
.TP
\fBseed=\fP
Standard seed [0]     
.TP
\fBaddphi=\fP
Add (as negative) potentials to snapshot.  [f]
.TP
\fBmfrac=\fP
Mass fraction used of Hernquist distribution. 
A value of 1.0 will result in particles at large radii. See CAVEATS below.
[1.0]
.TP
\fBrfrac=\fP
Radius where to cut the mass model, which will override the \fBmfrac\fP
value.  Default: not used.
.TP
\fBzerocm=\fP
Centrate snapshot (t/f)? See CAVEATS below. [t]    
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
Optional verbiage []

.SH "UNITS"
\fBmkhernquist\fP is one of the programs in NEMO that does not quite use virial units,
though is in virial equilibrium.
The total mass is 2 by default, if halo mass \fBm=1\fP is used.

.SH "CAVEATS"
Due to the relatively large number of particles at large radii,
setting zerocm=t will cause the center to be significantly 
shifted from the origin. This will depend on the value for
\fBnbody=\fP and \fBmfrac=\fP. Setting mfrac=0.95 will thus
a more reasonably looking model, at the cost of a model that
is not quite relaxed.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkplummer(1NEMO), mkommod(1NEMO), mkdehnen(1NEMO)

.SH "ADS"
@ads 1990ApJ...356..359H

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben, John Dubinski (original version)

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
27-Mar-03	V1.1 man pages finally created  	PJT
15-may-2015	V1.2 clarified docs, potential negative now	PJT
.fi
