.TH MKHOMSPH 1NEMO "20 May 1997"
.SH NAME
mkhomsph \- make homogeneous sphere
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkhomsph out=\fPsnapshot [parameters=values ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImkhomsph\fP creates a perfectly cold homogeneouss phere with unity mass.
Options exist to add random velocities and use a power density law.
.PP
Models are not stable of course, but fun to play with or to study
collapse and violent relaxtion. More serious homogeneous models
can be found in \fImkhom(1NEMO)\fP. Friedman & Polyachenko (1986?, Part I)
discuss how to make equilibrium models.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 25
\fBout=\fIout_file\fP
The data are written to this file in \fISnapShot(5NEMO)\fP 
format [no default].
.TP
\fBnbody=\fInum_bodies\fP
Number of stars in sphere [default: \fB2048\fP]
.TP
\fBrmin=\fImin_radius\fP
Inner cutoff radius of the sphere. [Default: \fB0.0\fP].
.TP
\fBrmax=\fImax_radius\fP
Outer cutoff radius of the sphere. [Default: \fB1.2\fP].
.TP
\fB2t/w=\fIratio\fP
Virial ratio which measures deviation from virial equilibrium
(two times the ratio of kinetic to potential energy, \fB2t/w\fP
must be positive).  Only accurate for a homogenous sphere
(\fBpower=0\fP and \fBrmin=0\fP). See also \fBvmax=\fP for an
alternate means to specify scaling velocities.
[default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBvmax=\fIvmax\fP
Maximum of isotropic velocities. No scaling as function of radius
is applied. 
[default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBpower=\fIp\fP
Power law exponent of the density as function of radius, Density
\fIrho = r^{-p}\fP, thus centrally concentrated models have
\fIp > 0 \fP . Values of \fI p > 3\fP are illegal.
[default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBseed=\fIrandom_seed\fP
Use random number seed. 
[default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBzerocm=\fBt|f\fP
Center coordinates on center of mass after generation? [default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBheadline=\fImessage\fP
Text headline for output file [default: not used].
.SH BUGS
When shells are created (non-zero \fBrmin\fP) the calculation of 'virial
equilibrium' velocity dispersions is not correct anymore. See 
snapvirial(1NEMO) for a slightly better approach.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapmass(1NEMO), snapcenter(1NEMO), mkhom(1NEMO), snapvirial(1NEMO)
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
20-mar-89	V1.0 created  	PJT
28-mar-89	V1.1 keyword 'rmin' added	PJT
5-apr-89	V1.2 keyword 2t/w implemented when rmin=0	PJT
6-apr-89	V1.3 keyword zerocm added	PJT
20-may-97	V1.4 added vmax=, power=	PJT
.fi
