.TH MKJET 1NEMO "29 March 1996"
.SH NAME
mkjet \- create a toy model for a jet
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkjet\fP \fBout=\fP\fIsnapshot\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmkjet\fP creates a toy model of a jet, with particles
distributed uniformely along a cone with given (constant) opening
angle \fBtheta\fP. The outflow velocity can be varied using an
expansion curve, that gives expansion velocity as function of
radius.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
Output snapshot file name. No default./
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP
Number of particles.
[Default: 256].
.TP
\fBtheta=\fP
(full) Opening angle of jet, in degrees. Default: 10.
.TP
\fBr=\fP
Sample radii along jet. A number of radii have to be given,
for which expansion velocities will have to be given.
.TP
\fBv=\fP
Expansion velocities along jet radii, as given by \fBrad=\fP.
Each radius must have a matching velocity, although if fewer
velocities are given, the last ones are simply repeated.
.TP
\fBrmin=\fP
Inner radius if the jet. [Default: 0].
.TP
\fBrmax=\fP
Outer radius of the jet.  [Default: 2].
.TP
\fBnmodel=\fP
Number of models to write. [Default: 1].
.TP
\fBseed=\fP
Random seed. 0 is taken as the current time of the day, and as such
a good choice for fully random samples. [Default: 0]
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
Random verbiage added to the snapshot . By default none.
.SH EXAMPLE
Since there is no table input for the radial expansion curve yet,
you have to provide a series of radii and velocities through the
\fBr=\fP and \fBv=\fP keywords. Although it requires you to use 
two temporary files, one for each column, 
the following NEMO shortcut may
be handy in this case (assuming you have a table with radius and
velocity in the first two columns)
.nf
    tabmath table1 tab.r %1 all
    tabmath table1 tab.v %2 all
    mkjet ....  r=@tab.r v=@tab.v
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
(still private)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
29-mar-96	V0.1 Created 	PJT
.fi
