.TH MKKD95 1NEMO "5 August 2006"
.SH NAME
mkkd95 \- Kuijken-Dubinski-95 composite disk-bulge-halo model
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkkd95\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmkkd95\fP creates a composite Disk-Bulge-Halo galaxy in 
near equilibrium following the procedure described in
Kuijken & Dubinksi (1995). This program is merely a NEMO wrapper
that assembles all the correct parameters, runs the a set
of KD95 programs (commonly referred to as
the GalactICS Software) in a temporary rundirectory and converts the
ascii output to a NEMO \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP. 
.PP
The bulge and halo are  a King and lowered Evans distribution
resp, whereas the disk a 3D generalization of Shu's planar disk
to include a 3rd integral of motion to account for the vertical
structure. The construction occurs in 3 steps. First the potential
is calculated, after which the disk distribution function
is constructed which generates the given potential. Finally,
each component is realized with a self-consistent distribution
of particle orbits.
.PP
Although one
has the option of including any combination of components,
leaving out the halo probably won't work.
.PP
Two new versions have been published since the current 1995 K&D version:
Widrow & Dubinski (2005) and Widrow, Pym and Dubinski (2008). These are
not (yet) supported in the current \fBmkkd95\fP program.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
output snapshot (a rundirectory $out.tmpdir is also created). 
No default.
.TP
\fBndisk=\fP
Number of particles in disk. Set them to 0 to leave out this
component.
Notice these are the first set (of three) of particles in the snapshot.
 [8000]  
.TP
\fBnbulge=\fP
Number of particles in bulge, the second set of particles in
the output snapshot. [4000]  
.TP
\fBnhalo=\fP
Number of particles in halo. 
Notice these are the thirds and last set of particles in the snapshot.
[6000]  
.TP
\fBpsi0=\fP
in.dbh: Psi0 (HALO) 
central potential - the smaller (the more negative) this parameter
the deeper the potential and the more extended the halo
[-4.6]    
.TP
\fBv0=\fP
in.dbh:
v0 = sqrt(2.0)*sigma0 where sigma0 is the central velocity
dispersion. roughly the velocity where the halo rotation curve peaks
[1.42]     
.TP
\fBq=\fP
in.dbh: q 
an optional flattening parameter for the potential - generally
0.7 < q < 1.05 - q=1.0 will give a nearly spherical halo
[1]     
.TP
\fBrck2=\fP
in.dbh: (rc/rk)^2 
a core smoothing parameter - ratio of the core radius to the
derived King radius for halo only models set this
to 1.0.  For multicomponent models, this can be a smaller
number 0.0 to 0.1.  I've found that with this parameter=0.0 the
program can crash.
[0.1]     
.TP
\fBra=\fP
in.dbh:
Ra   - a scaling radius for the halo -
The halo Ra radius is the radius at which the halo rotation curve, at its
initial slope ignoring cutoffs and the other components, reaches v0.
 [0.8]     
.TP
\fBmd=\fP
in.dbh:
M_d - mass of the exponential disk ignoring cutoffs
[0.867]    
.TP
\fBrd=\fP
in.dbh:
R_d - exponential scale length
[1]     
.TP
\fBrouter=\fP
in.dbh: 
R_outer - outer radius where we begin to truncate the disk density
[5]     
.TP
\fBzd=\fP
in.dbh: 
z_d - disk scale height assuming a sech^2(z/zd) vertical density law
[0.1]     
.TP
\fBdrtrunc=\fP
in.dbh: 
dR_trunc - truncation width - the disk density smoothly drops to zero in
the range R_outer < R < ~R_outer + 2*dR_trunc.
[0.5]     
.TP
\fBrhob=\fP
in.dbh: 
rho_b    - bulge central density
[14.45]    
.TP
\fBpsicut=\fP
in.dbh: 
psi_cut  - bulge cut-off potential psi0 < psi_cut < 0.0
         - energy cut-off for the bulge
[-2.3]     
.TP
\fBsigb=\fP
in.dbh: 
sig_b    - bulge central potential
[0.714]     
.TP
\fBdr=\fP
in.dbh: delta_r 
the width of the radial bins used to calculate the potential
[0.01]     
.TP
\fBnr=\fP
in.dbh: nr -
number of radial bins - initially a guess since we don't know
the radial extent of the system
[2400]     
.TP
\fBlmax=\fP
in.dbh: the largest value in the potential harmonic expansion - use
lmax=2 to get a quick look at the mass profile and lmax=10 for
the final calculation of the model
 number of harmonics [10]   
.TP
\fBsigvr0=\fP
in.diskdf: central radial velocity dispersion [0.47]  
.TP
\fBsigr0=\fP
in.diskdf: scalelength of sig_r^2 [1.0]   
.TP
\fBncorr=\fP
in.diskdf: number of intervals for correction function [50]
.TP
\fBniter=\fP
in.diskdf: number of iterations [10]   
.TP
\fBfstreamb=\fP
in.bulge: the streaming fraction of stars with L_z > 0.
This controls the  rotation of the bulge and the halo,
with f=0.5 the non-rotating case.
[0.75]      
.TP
\fBfstreamh=\fP
in.halo: see above, for the halo. [0.5]      
.TP
\fBiseed=\fP
in.- Random Seed - KD95 convention. Notice this seed is shared
by all 3 components. [-1]    
.TP
\fBzerocm=\fP
in.- Center the snapshot? Notice again this is shared by all
three components. [t]   
.TP
\fBbin=\fP
directory in which KD95 binaries live. Unless your binaries 
have been added  to your search PATH, you need to specify
the directory where these live.
 [.] 
.TP
\fBmodel=A|B|C|D\fP
Base K&D95 model. The default model parameters above are 
already for model-A,
but with this keyword another one of the 4 published models can
be quickly loaded. After that specific parameters can still
be overriden by setting their value explicitly. By default
model is not set via this method.
.TP
\fBnmodel=\fP
Number of models computed. Useful if you want to stack a large
number of models to increase signal to noise.
Default: 1.
.TP
\fBcleanup=t|f\fP
Cleanup the temporary run directory after usage. The
contents of this directory is probably only useful for 
debugging, it contains the output of all the individual programs
and temporary files before final conversion to the \fIout\fP file.
Default: t
.SH PROCEDURE
Creating a galaxy model from these parameters is sort of a black art
since the halo and bulge models are not parameterized in terms of
their mass profiles but rather properties of their distribution
functions.  Changes in psi0, v0 etc. have weird but predictable
effects on the mass profile.
.PP
The halo is a flattened analogue of the King model so the concentration
(R_tidal/R_core) is determined by the dimensionless central potential
psi_0/sigma_0^2.  The more negative the value the greater the
concentration.  The parameters R_a and v_0, affect the scaling of the
halo mass profile.
.PP
The effect of different bulge parameters is more predictable.  Decreasing the
central velocity dispersion will create a more centrally concentrated
bulge and decreasing the psi cut off will truncate the bulge and decrease
its total mass.
.PP
The disk is parameterized directly by its mass profile so its effect on the
rotation curve is predictable ahead of time.
.PP
Hit and miss seems to be a good strategy for finding a suitable profile.
Generate a model to lmax=2 and then view the resulting rotation curve by 
using the \fIvcirc\fP program, in  which 
the contributions to the total rotation curve are tabulated.  Another useful
file is \fImr.dat\fP which tells you the mass and radial extent of the disk
bulge and halo.
.PP
The program \fIplotforce\fP will also generate the rotation curves for you
directly from the dbh.dat, b.dat and h.dat files.
.PP
The potential is determined iteratively: starting from an initial
guess at the potential, the density implied by the halo and bulge DFs
is calculated, the disk density added, and the potential of that mass
distribution is used as starting point for the next
iteration. Initially only the monopole (l=0) components are calculated
until the model converges, then one more harmonic is added per
iteration up to the maximum requested, and once all harmonics are
included the iterations are continued until the outer (tidal) radius
of the halo is unchanged between iterations. At each iterations plots
of the harmonic expansion coefficients are produced.
If the tidal radius reported is "outside grid" for a large number of
iterations, increase the number of radial bins or increase their
size. Sometimes infinite tidal radii are also reported: this happens
when the total mass of the model using the current guess for the
potential is insufficient to generate a potential well as deep as
requested. If this persists over many iterations, again increase the
number or size of the radial bins.
.PP
.SH PROGRAMS
Although \fBmkkd95\fP calls a number of KD95 programs, here is a brief
explanation of some of them:
.PP
\fBdbh\fP calculates the potential. From in.dbh is computes
dbh.dat, h.dat, b.dat and mr.dat.
.PP
\fBgetfreqs\fP tabulates various characteristic frequencies (omega, kappa etc.)
in the equatorial plane for use by \fBdiskdf\fP. Input files are 
dbh.dat h.dat b.dat, and it generates freqdbh.dat
.PP
\fBdiskdf\fP iteratively calculates the correction functions for
the disk distribution function. These functions are multiplicative
corrections to the surface density and vertical velocity dispersion
which appear to leading order in the Shu (1969) distribution
functions. See KD95 for details. The keywords
sigrv0, sigr0, ncorr, niter are used for this.
It also outputs the Toomre Q as a function of radius in the file
toomre.dat.
.PP
\fBgendisk, genbulge, genhalo\fP assembled the respective components
using an input file.
.PP
\fBmergerv\fP is a small shell script that merges the 3 ascii files.
.SH PERFORMANCE
The bulk of the CPU is in creating the disk particles, the bulge and halo are 
a much smaller fraction of the cpu. On a 1.6 GHz Pentium-4 laptop the cpu cost is
about \fI(Ndisk/1000)+32\fP secs for the gnu compiler (the 32 secs is to account for
building tables, which is independantly of the number of particles.
.SH EXAMPLES
The default keywords are for Kuijken-Dubinski's model-A.

.nf
% mkkd95 A0.dat
% snapmstat A0.dat sort=f
0 0:7999  = 8000 Mass= 0.000108822 TotMas= 0.87058 CumMas= 0.87058
1 8000:11999  = 4000 Mass= 0.00010631 TotMas= 0.425242 CumMas= 1.29582
2 12000:17999 = 6000 Mass= 0.000819365 TotMas= 4.91619 CumMas= 6.21201
% snapplot A0.dat color='i<8000?2.0/16.0:(i<12000?3.0/16.0:4.0/16.0)' yvar=z
% snapxyz A0.dat - color='i<8000?1:(i<12000?2:4)' | xyzview - maxpoint=18000 nfast=18000 scale=8 fullscreen=t

% mkkd95 B0.dat model=B
% snapplot B0.dat color='i<1000?2.0/16.0:(i<2000?3.0/16.0:4.0/16.0)' yvar=z

% mkkd95 C0.dat model=C
% snapplot C0.dat color='i<4000?2.0/16.0:(i<6000?3.0/16.0:4.0/16.0)' yvar=z

% mkkd95 D0.dat model=D
% snapplot D0.dat color='i<1000?2.0/16.0:(i<2000?3.0/16.0:4.0/16.0)' yvar=z
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
gendisk, genbulge, genhalo, dbh, getfreqs, diskdf, snapmstat(1NEMO), tabtos(1NEMO), magalie(1NEMO)
.nf
http://www.astro.rug.nl/~kuijken/galactics.html     original GalactICS distribution
.nf
1995MNRAS.277.1341K - Kuijken, K.; Dubinski, J.  
\fINearly Self-Consistent Disc / Bulge / Halo Models for Galaxies\fP
.nf
Widrow & Dubinski 2005 (version 2)
.nf
Deg, N., Widrow, L. M., & Randriamampandry, T. 2019, MNRAS, 486, 5391 (updated release to include gas)
.nf
Widrow, Pym and Dubinski 2008 (version 3)
.nf
makegalaxy     https://bitbucket.org/lutorm/makegalaxy
.nf
GalIC	[ascl:1408.008] GALIC: Galaxy initial conditions construction 
.fi
.SH FILES
.nf
NEMO/src/nbody/init/mkkd95.c
NEMO/usr/kuijken/GalactICS-exp/
$out.tmdir/dbh.dat            contains tabulated values of the harmonic coefficients
                  for the Legendre expansion of the density, potential and
                  radial force at the specified radii for the entire model

$out.tmdir/h.dat              same as above, but only for halo
$out.tmdir/b.dat              same as above, but only for bulge
$out.tmdir/mr.dat             mass and radial extent (or edge) of disk, bulge and halo
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Konrad Kuijken & John Dubinski (fortran programs - 1995)
Peter Teuben (NEMO interface) -
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
06-Mar-04	V1.0 Created, using kd95's  README file 	PJT
11-mar-04	V1.2 added nmodel= and warns about using model= 	PJT
23-mar-04	V1.4 use logfile in tmpdir, added cleanup=, some key reorder	PJT
19-jul-06	V1.5 fix POSIX problems and document order of particles better
27-jul-06	fixed documentation on vcirc usage, disabled pgplot for ia64	PJT
5-aug-06	merged two previous (CVS) docs	PJT
.fi

