.TH MKNBODY5 1NEMO "10 June 1995"
.SH NAME
mknbody5 \- Create initial conditions using the NBODY5 program
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmknbody5\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmknbody5\fP is a NEMO frontend to Aarseth's \fPnbody5(1NEMO)\fP
program with which you can create initial conditions. This is done by
creating an input parameter file for nbody5, which sets up the
initial conditions but doesn't integrate (TCRIT=0.0). The nbody5
output file is then converted to standard \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP
format using \fIu3tos(1NEMO)\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
Output \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP file.
No default.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP
Number of bodies.
[Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBseed=\fP
Random number seed. 0 takes a random number from the time of the
day.
[Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBnbin=\fP
Number of initial binaries.
[Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBrbar=\fP
Virial radius in pc (for scaling)  
[Default: \fB1.0\fP].
.TP
\fBzmbar=\fP
Mean mass in solar mass (for scaling) 
[Default: \fB6.0\fP].
.TP
\fBmass0=\fP
Lower mass cutoff     
[Default: \fB1.0\fP].
.TP
\fBmass1=\fP
Upper mass cutoff     
[Default: \fB6.0\fP].
.TP
\fBalpha=\fP
Power law index for Initial Mass Function 
(as defined by N(m) = m**(-alpha)).
[Default: \fB2.5\fP].
.TP 
\fBimf=\fP
Choice of IMF (Valid options are: \fBscalo, kroupa, eggleton\fP).
[Default: \fBscalo\fP].
.TP
\fBvirial=\fP
Initial virial (1=equilibrium)     
[Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBvxrot=\fP
XY-velocity scaling factor (>0 for solid body) 
[Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBvzrot=\fP
Z-velocity scaling factor (not used of vxrot=0) 
[Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBrun=t|f\fP
Run nbody5 and convert the data to snapshot format?
Note: if you choose to use this option any existing file \fBOUT3\fP
will be removed prior to running \fNbody5\fP.
.TP
\fBsave=t|f\fP
COMMON save on unit 1? This may be useful if you want to restart
a similation (KSTART>1) from these initial conditions with different
paramters. It is (I believe) not possible (as in NBODY1/2 ??) to read
initial conditions from a file compatible with UNIT 3.
[Default: \fBf\fP].
.SH CAVEATS
Not all features have been implemented, in particular features
that cannot be exported through a simple mass and phase-space
format snapshot-like output format (e.g. mass loss, molecular clouds,
external force field etc.)
.PP
Since some file names (see FILES below) are fixed, it is dangerous
to run this program in parallel.
.PP
The \fBout=\fP output file does not contain the full history,
i.e. input paramaters of this program.
.PP
Small number of particles (\fBnbody=\fP) will not work properly
yet. Some paramters need to scale with N for small N.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SH SEE ALSO
nbody5(1), u3tos(1NEMO)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +1i
OUT3        NBODY5 binary snapshot (see also \fIu3tos(1NEMO)\fP)
nbody5.in   input parameter file
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
10-jun-95	V0.1 Created a basic version	PJT
.fi
