.TH MKOMMOD 1NEMO "5 July 1997"
.SH NAME
mkommod \- generate N-body system with anisotropic distribution function
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkommod in=\fPin_file \fBout=\fPout_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImkommod\fP generates N-body realizations of a spherical system with
a spheroidal anisotropic distribution function a la Osipkov-Merritt,
using tables of radius, mass, potential, and distribution function.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBin=\fP\fIin_file\fP
Read input tables in binary from \fIin_file\fP, which should contain
an \fBOsipkovMerrittModel\fP data set.  Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIout_file\fP
Write snapshot(s) to \fIout_file\fP in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO)
form.  Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fInum_bodies\fP
Number of particles to generate per model. Default: \fB512\fP.
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fIrandom_seed\fP
Seed used to initialize random number generator. Default: \fB123\fP.
.TP
\fBftrun=\fP\fImass_frac\fP
To save time in the rejection phase, all particles generated will lie
within the radius containing a fraction \fImass_frac\fP of the total
mass.  Since the d.f. is not truncated in energy, this amounts to a
slight bias in the orbital phases of a few outlying particles.
Default: \fB0.999\fP.
.TP
\fBzerocm=\fP\fIzero_flag\fP
If true, zero center of mass of generated model(s).
Default: \fBtrue\fP.
.TP
\fBnmodel=\fP\fInum_models\fP
Number of models to generate, written one after the other to
\fIout_file\fP.  Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP\fImessage\fP
Message prepended to \fIout_file\fP.
.TP
\fBepsilon=\fP\fIepsilon\fP
Small number that controls potential roundoff problems in f(E)
[Default: \fB1.0e-10\fP].
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapshot(5NEMO)
.PP
.nf
Binney & Tremaine (1987), pp.240
Osipkov, L.P. 1979, Soviet Astron Lett, 5, 42.
Merritt, D. 1985, AJ, 90, 1027.
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP 36
\fB$(NEMOPATH)/dat/k?isot.dat\fP
isotropic King models
.TP
\fB$(NEMOPATH)/dat/k?an??.dat\fP
anisotropic King models
.TP
\fB$(NEMOPATH)/dat/plum.dat\fP
isotropic Plummer model
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
22-may-88	V1.x created/documented   	JEB
5-jul-97	V2.0 added epsilon, some code cleanup	PJT
.fi
