.TH MKOP73 1NEMO "4 November 1993"
.SH NAME
mkop73 \- set up a Mestel disk using 1973 Ostriker & Peebles' method
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkop73\fP \fBout=\fP\fIsnapshot\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImkop73\fP sets up a Mestel disk,
with an optional static background potential,
in close virial equilibrium. The procedure how exactly 
the initial velocities are computed is involved, and details can
be found in the original
Ostriker & Peebles 1973 paper or as detailed in the code.
Although the disk is flat, there will be an initial velocity dispersion
in Z, which will quickly evolve into a finite thickness disk.
.PP
These disks are known to be dynamically unstable against bar formation in the
absence of a sizeable halo, and are fun to play with.
.PP
The program defaults are set such as to as closely as possible
reproduce (apart from the
random number generation) the ``standard'' model 1 in Ostriker &
Peebles. Some parameters below are related; so be aware that 
changing one parameter in the OP73 notation, may require
you changing two in this program, for example scaling the masses:
\fBnbody\fP, \fBmdisk\fP and \fBpotpars(2)\fP are related, and 
scaling the lengths: \fBrcut\fP, \fBc\fP, and \fBpotpars(3)\fP are
related.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
output file name, will be in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format.
No default.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fIN\fP
Number of particles in the disk
[Default: \fB300\fP].
.TP
\fBmdisk=\fP\fIM_d\fP
Total disk mass. Normally each particle has unity mass, hence \fBmdisk\fP
should be the same as \fBnbody\fP
[Default: \fB300.0\fP].
.TP
\fBrcut=\fP\fIR\fP
outer cutoff radius of the disk (the halo cutoff radius is determined with
the appropriate paramter in the \fPpotpars=\fP series of parameters.
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBsigma=\fP\fIsigma\fP
Dimensionless scaling parameter \fIsigma\fP for velocity dispersion
in Toomre's Q parameter (see eq. (7) and (8) in OP73). Toomre's Q=1
corresponds to \fIsigma=0.378\fP.
[Default: \fB0.454\fP].
.TP
\fBnring=\fP
number of particles per ring; should divide \fBnbody\fP.
Each ring will be divided into \fBnring\fP segments, and one
particle will be placed randomly within that segment. There
will be \fBnbody/nring\fP rings.
[Default: \fB10\fP].
.TP
\fBnvel=\fP
number of measurements used to determine the circular velocity. Note
that OP73 do not quote the exact value of this parameter. Although
particles are randomly rotated to compute the average circular
velocity, the first measurement is not, as to be able to compute
the potential and forces in case \fBoptions=\fP would want to output
them.
[Default: \fB10\fP].
.TP
\fBnderiv=\fP
number of rings (zones) used to determine dv/dr (used to calculate
the velocity dispersion). Should probably be an integer fraction of
\fBnbody/nring\fP.
[Default: \fB10\fP].
.TP
\fBseed=\fP
usual random number seed    
[Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBeps=\fP\fIc\fP
softening for force calculation, called \fIc\fP in OP73.
[Default: \fB0.05\fP].
.TP
\fBzerocm=t|f\fP
Center the snapshot? Note this option was not mentioned in OP73.
[Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBmode=1|2\fP
Creation mode: 1=OP73 method. 2=theoretical Mestel disk rotation curve.
[Default: \fB1\fP].
\fImode=2 not fully implemented\fP
.TP
\fBoptions=\fP
Options for additional snapshot output (\fBphi,acc,rot,sig\fP). 
\fBphi\fP and \fBacc\fP output potential and forces in their
usual \fIPhi\fP and \fIAcc\fP slots, whereas
\fBsig\fP stores the three velocity dispersions (radial, tangential
and vertical) in the \fIAcc\fP slots, and \fBrot\fP stores
the pre-dispersion rotational velocities in the \fIAux\fP slot
(see snapshot(5NEMO) for an explanation on these slots).
Default: no extra output.
.TP
\fBpotname=\fP
External static potential, in standard \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP format.
[Default: \fBop73\fP, i.e. the standard OP73 potential].
.TP
\fBpotpars=\fP\fI0,M_h,0.1*R,R\fP
Potential parameters. 
Default: \fB0,0\fP, i.e. with 0 mass (the first 0 is the pattern
speed of the potential, and is not used in this application. The
standard order of the OP73 potential parameters are:
omega [0.0], mass [1.0],  
core radius [0.1] and outer cutoff radius [1.0].
In general the default value depends on \fPpotname=\fP.
.TP
\fBpotfile=\fP
Optional datafile name for potential. OP73 doesn't use this parameter.
In general the default value depends on \fPpotname=\fP.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
Additional text for output file.
Default: none.
.SH BUGS
Some parameters are related, and the program may not always deal
well with cases where they deviate from OP73. For example, changing
the disk-radius (\fBrcut\fP) has dubious 
side-effects on a variety of length-scale
parameters (c, potpars(3)).
.PP
The original OP73 paper is vague or unclear in a few places in the
exact procedures implemented in the program. See source code for
more comments.
.SH FILES
.ta +3i
~src/orbit/potential/data/op73.c	The 'OP73' potential(5NEMO) code
~src/nbody/init/mkop73.c              	Nbody initializers
.SH SEE ALSO
snapopt(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), ctex(1NEMO)
.PP
J.P. Ostriker & P.J.E. Peebles - ApJ \fB186\fP, 467-480, 1973.
\fIA numerical study of the stability of flattened galaxies: or,
can cold galaxies survive?\fP (OP73)
.SH AUTHOR
Jeffrey Newman, Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
xx-jul-93	V0.4 Created as MKOP	JAN
3-nov-93	V0.9 Fixed bugs, added more features and CTEX notes	PJT
4-nov-93	V1.0 formal realase as MKOP73	PJT
.fi

