.TH MKORBIT 1NEMO "11 December 2019"
.SH NAME
mkorbit \- make an orbit with initial conditions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBmkorbit out=\fPorbit [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImkorbit\fP will generate an orbit by either given it the exact inititial
coordinates in phase space, or specifying an energy and leaving out one
of the velocities (the standard way to generate initial conditions for
a surface of section plot). In the last case an external potential needs
to be given.
.PP
Orbits can also be created from snapshots, by using \fIstoo(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
\fINote: currently the \fBz,vz\fI coordinates are set to zero, generating
effectively 2D orbits.\fP
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, will be in \fIorbit(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBx=\fIx-position\fP
Initial value of position along x-axis [default: not used]
.TP
\fBy=\fIy-position\fP
Initial value of position along y-axis [default: not used]
.TP
\fBvx=\fIx-velocity\fP
Initial value of velocity along x-axis [default: not used]
.TP
\fBvy=\fIy-velocity\fP
Initial value of velocity along y-axis [default: not used]
.TP
\fBetot=\fIenergy\fP
Energy of the orbit. If no value is given, the program assumes
that all phase space coordinates will be used. If a value for
the energy is given, one of the phase space velocities may be
left out, and will be calculated. In this case the potential
where the orbit is calculated in, must also be given, see next
3 parameters [default: not used].
.TP
\fBlz=\fP
The sign of \fBlz\fP will determine sense of rotation if
only X or Y is given with etot.
.TP
\fBpotname=\fIname\fP
name of file of the \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP descriptor, 
in case it is needed [default: none].
.TP
\fBpotpars=\fIpar-list\fP
List of parameters to the potential descriptor. The first
parameter MUST be the pattern speed in the x-y plane,
(although rotating frames of reference are not supported in
all programs). The remaining parameters are used by the
\fIinipotential()\fP routine in the potential descriptor.
[default: none - let them be defined by routine itself].
.TP
\fBpotfile=\fIname\fP
name of an optional datafile to the potential descriptor.
This might be an N-body snapshot or table of spline fit
coefficients etc. [default: none].
.SH EXAMPLES
To fully specify an orbit without the need for a potential
.nf
  % mkorbit orb1.dat 1 0 0  0 1 0
.fi
one can specifiy a potential, which simplifies using it in \fIorbint(1NEMO)\fP as the
potential parameters do not need to be specified again:
.nf
  % mkorbit orb2.dat 1 0 0  0 1 0 potname=plummer potpars=0,2.0,0.3
.fi
or specify a launch point on the X or Y axis, and an energy, but here the potential is required:
.nf
  % mkorbit orb3.dat x=1 e=-1.4 potname=plummer potpars=0,2.0,0.3
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
stoo(1NEMO), potlist(1NEMO), orblist(1NEMO), mkgalorbit(1NEMO), mk2body(1NEMO), potential(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/orbit/io  	mkorbit.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
xx-jul-87	V1.0: Created:	PJT
4-May-88	V2.1: keywords e,potential etc. implemented	PJT
2-Jun-88	V2.2: new filestruct, no code change	PJT
2-Mar-92	V2.3: new NEMO 2.x	PJT
10-dec-2019	V4.4: implemented PHI/ACC storage; simplified orbit launching	PJT
.fi
