.TH mkplum 1falcON "19 May 2004"

.SH name
mkplum \- initial conditions from a Plummer model (public version)

.SH synopsis
\fBmkplum\fP [parameter=value]

.SH requirement
requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher, see http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo.


.SH description
\fBmkplum\fP creates N-body initial conditions from an isotropic Plummer
model, which has density
.nf

	                             2
	            3         M * r_s
	rho(r) = ------ -------------------,
	                   2      2  (5/2)
	          4*Pi   (r  + r_s  )

.if

with total mass M and scale radius  r_s.

.SH parameters

.TP 12
\fBout=\fP\fIfile\fP
The initial conditions are written in NEMO snapshot format to \fIfile\fP.
If \fIfile\fP=-, output is made to stdout. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fInum\fP
The initial conditions will contain \fInum\fP body masses, positions,
and velocities. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBr_s=\fP\fIval\fP
The scale radius of the Plummer sphere is set to \fIval\fP. Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBmass=\fP\fIval\fP
The total mass of the Plummer sphere is set to \fIval\fP. Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fInum\fP
We will use \fInum\fP as seed for the (pseudo-) random number generator.
If \fInum\fP=0, a unique new seed is created from the current value of
the time, otherwise, the seed actually provided is used. Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBq_ran=t|f\fP
If true, we use quasi-random rather than pseudo-random numbers for
drawing position and angles in velocity space. Pseudo-random numbers
are still used in the rejection-method to draw the total velocity from
the DF. Default: \fBf\fP.
.TP
\fBtime=\fP\fIval\fP
The simulation time associated with the initial conditions is set to \fIval\fP.
Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBf_pos=\fP\fIval\fP
The fraction of bodies with positive sense of rotation
about the z-axis is set to \fIval\fP. Default: \fB0.5\fP.
.TP
\fBrmax=\fP\fIval\fP
If given, only bodies with radius < \fIval\fP are created.
No default.
.TP
\fBWD_units=t|f\fP
If true, units for \fBmass\fP and \fBr_s\fP will be taken as solar
mass and kpc, respectively, but output units will be in kpc (positions),
kpc/Gyr (velocities), and 222288.47 solar masses (implying Newton's G=1).
Default: \fBf\fP.

.SH remark
mkplum differs from mkplummer(1NEMO) in several ways. The most important
additional features are \fBq_ran\fP and \fBWD_units\fP.

.SH see also
mkdehnen(1falcON), mkking(1falcON)
.PP

.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf                         \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP
.fi
.SH author
.nf
Walter Dehnen                              walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
18-May-2004	first version of manual written WD
.fi


