.TH MKPOLYTROPE 1NEMO "6 June 2023"

.SH "NAME"
mkpolytrope \- make N-body model of generalized polytrope

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBmkpolytrope  out=\fPout_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fImkpolytrope\fP generates an N-body realization of one of Henon's
generalized polytropes.  At present, only the polytrope \fIn = 1,
m = -1\fP is supported.
.PP
See also ZENO's \fIGeneral Spherical Profile\fP for another generalization
to create models.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 24
\fBout=\fIout_file\fI
Write to \fIout_file\fP in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format.
No default.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fInum_bodies\fP
Number of particles to generate.  Default: \fB512\fP.
.TP
\fBn=\fP\fIE_exponent\fP
Exponent of energy in distribution function.  This can be a real-valued
expression. Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBm=\fP\fIJ_exponent\fP
Exponent of angular momentum.  This can be a real-valued 
expression. Default: \fB-1\fP.
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fIrandom_seed\fP
Seed for random number generator.  Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP\fImessage\fP
Message prepended to \fIout_file\fP.  Default: \fInone\fP.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkommod(1NEMO), mkplummer(1NEMO)
.PP
"\fIStability of Collisionless Stellar Dynamics\fP", P.L.Palmer
(Kluwer, Dordrecht, 1994) - Appendix A.
.PP
BGH A14
.PP
Gravitational Energy Formula of Polytropic Spheres -
https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/2515-5172/ae12a4

.SH "AUTHOR"
Joshua E. Barnes

.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
2-Jun-88	created?	Josh
22-jan-89	V1.1 some more	Josh
15-nov-90	V1.2 NEMO 2.x upgrades	PJT
13-dec-94	V1.3 keyword nobj= renamed to nbody=	PJT
19-feb-06	V1.4 mdarray	PJT
6-jun-2023	cleaner compile	PJT
.fi
