.TH MKTT72 1NEMO "5 December 2002"
.SH NAME
mktt72 \- Create a Toomre & Toomre 1972 test disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmktt72\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmktt72\fP creates a test disk of particles similar to the one 
used in Toomre & Toomre's 1972
paper (1972ApJ...178..623T). Currently each ring is placed in a separate snapshot. Use
\fIsnapmerge(1NEMO)\fP if they must be in a single snapshot.
.PP
The disk is rotating counter clock wise. Use \fIsnapscale(1NEMO)\fP to flip
the sign of velocities.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
output file name, each ring in a separate \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP. Use
\fIsnapmerge(1NEMO)\fP
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP
number of particles per (first) ring. 
When \fBgrow=t\fP the number of particles increases to keep
the line density constant.  [100]  
.TP
\fBradius=\fP
radii of rings. They should be entered in increasing order to prevent
interesting effects when grow=t. [1:6:1]    
.TP
\fBmass=\fP
Mass of the central particle. This is used to compute the
forces, and hence the 
.TP
\fBeps=\fP
Standard softening length applied between central mass and
test particles to compute the forces that set the particles
.TP
\fBcentral=t|f\fP
Add the central mass point also, as first snapshot? Default: f
.TP
\fBgrow=t|f\fP
Grow the number of particles per ring to keep the line density
constant? Default: t
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
verbiage for output []    
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a single snapshot with 10 rings and 16 in the first ring
(and about 160 in the outer ring).
.nf

   % mktt72 - 16 0.1:1:0.1 | snapmerge - snap.out

.fi
Here is a test to see if the force computations are ok, and rings stay at the same radius.
A large value of  eps= is used to make sure the first few rings are not pure 1/r^2:
.nf

  % mktt72 - 10 radius=0.1:1:0.1 central=t eps=0.2 |\\
	 snapmerge - - | hackcode1 - snap.out tstop=5 freq=100 freqout=10 eps=0.2
  % snapxyz snap.out - | xyzview -

.fi
.SH CAVEAT
It is near impossible to create the exact same initial conditions (at T=-10) of the TT72 paper.
.SH SEE ALSO
mkconfig(1NEMO), mkh41(1NEMO), mkdisk(1NEMO), snapscale(1NEMO), snapstack(1NEMO)
.PP
2010ApJ...725..353D - D'Onghia et al. (2010) - \fIQuasi-resonant Theory of Tidal Interactions\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
19-Nov-02	V0.1 Created	PJT
5-dec-02	V0.3 added grow=,central=	PJT
.fi
