.TH MODYSNAP 1NEMO "26 February 2009"
.SH NAME
modysnap \- convert Mody's pos-vel files to snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmodysnap\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmodysnap\fP converts snapshot-style datasets from
the \fIn-mody\fP MOND N-body integrator to a standard
NEMO \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input mody pos-vel file (moutXX.bin style). Multiple files can be given.
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output snapshot file. No default.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
Random verbiage []     
.TP
\fBswap=\fP
Swap bytes in each int/float if endianism differs . This is only needed if
the input files come from a machine with the opposite endianism as your
local host.
Not implemented yet.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is an example of running n-mody. First create in input file:
.nf
  % cp $NEMO/usr/n_mody/example_init/newgalaxy.data .
  % rungb
   ...
  20.013u 7.036s 0:27.05 99.9%	0+0k 0+0io 0pf+0w
  % modysnap mout00.bin snap0
   ...	nbody=2048000 mods=1
   ...	totms=1.000000 tnow=0.000000 tdyn=8.332943 vir=0.000000
.fi
then get the parameters for the integration and run the standard benchmark
.fi
  % cp $NEMO/usr/n_mody/run/input.data .
  % rmond
  565.048u 6.426s 9:31.90 99.9%	0+0k 0+0io 0pf+0w
.nf
.fi
though notice this benchmark does not produce extra mout01.bin etc. files (nout=0)
.PP
To process multiple files, a Unix pipe should be used:
.nf
  % cat mout??.bin | modysnap - mout.snap
.fi
.SH LIMITATION
Currently only the \fImoutXX.bin\fP (pos-vel) files can be processed. 
However, it's not hard to have a \fIpoutXX.bin\fP type to be merged
in and produce a snapshot with potentials as well.
.PP
There is no good alternative for the \fImondXX.bin\fP files in
NEMO yet.
.SH FILES
There are a number of files used by \fIrmond\fP:
.PP
\fBmoutXX.bin\fP: a small 5 integer and 5 real header, followed by nbody
float "posvel" vectors.
.PP
\fBmondXX.bin\fP: grid data
.PP
\fBpoutXX.bin\fP: particle potentials. Same header

.SH SEE ALSO
rungb, rmond, runmond(1NEMO), snapmody(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
$NEMO/src/nbody/io/modysnap.c  -- code
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
23-Feb-09	V1.0 Created	PJT
26-feb-09	V1.2 process multiple files if present	PJT
.fi
