.TH MOM2CUBE 1NEMO "11 April 2017"
.SH NAME
mom2cube \- Use cube moments along Z to reconstruct a cube
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmom2cube\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Using the first two or three moment maps, a data cube is recontructed. The
third axis needs to be described, or inherited from a supplied cube.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBmom0=\fP
Input moment-0 image. Units can be sum or sum*dz. See \fBnorm=\fP below,
and also \fIccdmom(1NEMO)\fP with the
\fBintegrate=t\fP option. No default.
.TP
\fBmom1=\fP
Input moment-1 image.
No default.
.TP
\fBmom2=\fP
Input moment-2 image. Optional. If not given, a  constant \fBsigma\fP (see below)
is used.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Reconstructed output cube. 
.TP
\fBsigma=\fP
Constant value for mom2 (sigma) if that image is not supplied.
.TP
\fBcube=\fP
Optional cube to describe 3rd axis, see also \fBclone=\fP. [] 
.TP
\fBz=\fP
Zmin,Zmax,dZ (or use cube) [-1.0,1.0,0.1]   
.TP
\fBnorm=t|f\fP
Normalization of the cube?  This will make sure that the values \fBmom0\fP
correspond to the integral in the cube (I.dv) not just the sum of the values.
[true]
.TP
\fBclone=t|f\fP
Should the cube be cloned (including WCS).  This also saves memory, but can only
be done if they spatially agree in X and Y.
[false]
.TP
\fBchan0=\fP
Select a channel to be zero'd out. This can be useful if you need the cube
for a simulation where there is a channel with no signal.
Default: -1 (no channel zeroed)
.SH SEE ALSO
ccdmom(1NEMO), ccdstat(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
src/image/misc/mom2ccd.c
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
5-apr-2017	V0.1 Created	PJT
6-apr-2017	V0.4 released with some improved options and defaults	PJT
11-apr-2017	V0.5 added chan0=	PJT
.fi
