.TH CSG 1NEMO "17 March 2006"
.SH NAME
nam, runam\-  Numerical Action Method integrator
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnam\fP 
.PP
\fBrunam\fP  [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
NOTE:: This is \fIwork in progress\fP, the code is not yet available within NEMO.x
.PP
.SH ABSTRACTS
Some abstracts  from papers to give an idea what we do here:
.PP
2005AAS...207.3001P:
The Numerical Action Method (NAM) seeks to recreate past orbits of large
galaxies and galaxy groups by application of the least action principle.
Recent improvements to NAM include: addition of a smooth, constant
density background; time-dependent masses for haloes following linear
perturbation theory; and solving for present distances and redshifts
simultaneously to optimize fitting observations. We show that this
improved NAM reconstructs reasonable orbits which agree with a
large-scale numerical N-body code and with far less multiplicity than
earlier efforts. We present results on the flow of galaxies, groups and
clusters within 3000 km/s based on very recent HST TRGB-distance
measurements. We can therefore expect to place theoretical constraints
on observations of transverse velocities by future astrometric missions
such as SIM and GAIA, as well as existing measurements of the proper
motion of M33 by VLBI. 
.PP
2003AAS...202.1904S:
We will describe a new technique within the category of Numerical Action
Methods in which one solves for acceptable individual total masses of
galaxies along with the orbits in an expanding cosmology. We will
present calculations done on simulated regions of radius 5 Mpc around
the Milky Way that provide an understanding of the sensitivity of mass
determinations on errors in distances and redshifts. In preparation for
proper motion measurements to be provided by Space Interferometry
Mission (SIM), we examine improvements in mass determinations when
proper motions further constrain the orbit solutions.
.PP


.SH PARAMETER
There are the NEMO command line parameters for \fBrunam\fP:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input catalog of ra,dec,z,D,dz.
No default.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
PARAMETER.DAT	basic input parameters (see below for details)

.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example uses ...
.nf
   % runam ....
.fi
.SH BENCHMARKS
The standard benchmark is ....
.nf
.ta +1i
P4/1.6	
AMD64/	
G5/1.6
.fi
You can run the command either as:
.nf
   % time runam ....
.fi
.SH DATA CONVERSION
If snapshots are requested..
...to NEMO's \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP
.nf
tabtos ..
.fi

.SH UNITS
The input catalog is 
.SH SEE ALSO
snapshot(5NEMO)
.PP
.nf
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Ed Shaya, Jim Peebles, Alan Peel ...
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +3i
2006	original version + NEMO integration	xxx/PJT
.fi
