.TH NBODY2 1NEMO "9 February 2019"
.SH NAME
nbody2 - direct summation N-body integrator with Ahmad-Cohen scheme
.SH SYNOPSIS
runbody2 in=snap_in out=snap_out [keyword=value ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIunder development\fP
.PP
\fBnbody2\fP is a NEMO adaptation of version 2 of Aarseth's 
N-body scheme in which close encounter are treated according to 
the Ahmad-Cohen scheme (ref: A.Ahmad and L. Cohen, 
\fI J. Comp. Phys.\fP 12, 389, 1973).
.PP
Each particle is followed with its own integration step - an essential
feature when the dynamical times of different particles vary a lot.
A complete description is given in: S.J. Aarseth, "Multiple
Time Scales", ed. U.J. Brackhill & B.I. Cohen, pp377. Orlando:
Academic Press. (1985).
.PP
For a proper choice of input parameters
it is \fBhighly recommended\fP to read an accompanying article
\fINBODY2: Ahmad-Cohen-N-body Code\fP by S. Aarseth. It is included
in NEMO's distribution package in the file $NEMO/doc/nbody2.tex, and
can be printed using TEX
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order when the keyword
is also given. Most of them have the same name as in Aarseth's 
description, except where otherwise noted.
.TP 25
\fBin=\fIfile-string\fP
Input file in snapshot format. If no input file is given, a system will
be generated for you, but it is expected that the \fBnbody\fP keyword
(see below) is used in this case [default: empty].
.TP
\fBout=\fIfile-string\fP
Output file in snapshot format [no default].
.TP
\fBrestart=\fIfile-string\fP
Input file in local binary dump format. If output option kz(1) is
choosen, this file will be overwritten. [default: not used].
.TP
\fBdump=\fIfile-string\fP
Output file where last dump for restarts (option kz(2) is stored)
[default: not used]
.TP
\fBnbody=\fIint\fP
Number of bodies to create system with, in case no filename was given.
Was called N in Aarseth's original description. [default: 32]
.TP
\fBnfix=\fIint\fP
Output frequency of binaries or data save (options 3 & 6)
[default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBnnbmax=\fIint\fP
Maximum number of neighbours (option 5 needs one more) [default: \fB10\fP].
.TP
\fBetai=\fIreal\fP
Time step parameter for irregular force calculation [default: \fB0.02\fP].
.TP
\fBetar=\fIreal\fP
Time step parameter for regular force calculation [default: \fB0.02\fP].
.TP
\fBrs0=\fIreal\fP
Initial radius of neighbour spheres [default: \fB0.5\fP].
.TP
\fBdeltat=\fIreal\fP
Output time interval, expressed in units of the crossing time
[default: \fB0.25\fP].
.TP
\fBtcrit=\fIreal\fP
Termination time, expressed in units of the crossing time
[default: \fB2.0\fP].
.TP
\fBqe=\fIreal\fP
Relative energy tolerance allowed per output time \fBdeltat\fP.
(restart if de/e>5*qe and option 2(kz[1])>0) [default: \fB0.01\fP]
.TP
\fBsmin=\fIreal\fP
Close encounter time step for neighbour retention (option 5)
[default: \fP0.01\fB].
.TP
\fBeps=\fIreal\fP
Softening length for potential (was called cutoff in Aarseth's original
version) [default: \fB0.05\fP].
.TP
\fBkz=\fIint array\fP
Array of options, at most 20 in number. A non-zero number sets some
activity, either output or control. A full description 
is given below [Default: \fB1::20\fP].
.TP
\fBcpumax=\fIvalue\fP
Maximum CPU time allowed for the process. If the value is 0.0 or negative,
the value is acutally ignored. Was called tcomp in Aarseth's original
program  [default: \fB0.0\fP].
.SH OPTIONS ARRAY
The options array \fBkz\fP, introduced as a keyword, requires
some additonal explanation, it usually takes some time to understand
the interaction between all other keywords and the \fBkz\fP.
.PP
Basic output occurs every \fBdeltat\fP crossing times, but the 
frequency parameter \fBnfix\fP then still controls
(together with certain options from the kz array) which
other major items will be output at which frequency,
such as a full body dump in the form of snapshots or
restart dumps.
.PP
Basic output consists of 1) time, virial ratio (T/U) q,
number of steps taken so far nstepn (6 numbers), radius of
center of mass, relative energy error de, and the
time in crossing times, tcr. Then 2) total angular momentum
in z, az, average number of near neighbours nnbn, ???, virial
radius and maximum 'rs' density.
.PP
A full snapshot dump to \fBout\fP can be obtained at every
\fBnfix*deltat\fP time-interval when kz(6)=1. nfix strangely
enough also controls the standard ascii output of information
on significant binaries.
.PP
kz(7) and kz(9) control the amount of standard ascii output 
of (all/a few(5)) bodies: stepsize, positions and velocities, 
regular and irregular forces and rs.
.PP
kz(1) and kz(2) control if dumps are to be done on unit 1 or 2.
Unit 1 is used only at the end of calculation, for a continuation
or restart. Unit 2, when activated, stores all relevant information
for (autoatic) restarts when energy conservation is not
acceptable (see \fBqe\fP above).
.PP
.SH TIMING
xxx
.SH LIMITATIONS
If an input snapshot is given, it must ALWAYS start at T=0. The 
fortran code has too many assumptions that this is the case. Of
course if the internal binary dump (restart) files are used,
integrations can be continued from the end on, but not from
a middle random snapshot without resetting the time.
.PP
/fIobsoleted?/fP:
The code has a hardcoded maximum number of particles in the fortran
code (nbody2.f), and C code (nbodyio.c), however both are transferred
through their own header file: nmax.inc for the FORTRAN code and 
nmax.h for the C code.
Whenever a new version is needed, use the makefile target 'nmax',
\fIe.g.\fP \fBmake nmax NMAX=256;make nbody2\fP, to create
new header files.
.SH STORAGE 
The \fBFORTRAN\fP code uses 4 large common blocks (named
block1,block2,block3,and block4) which can also be communicated
to the C code. These use \fI460.NMAX\fP bytes.
The \fBC\fP code allocated its space dynamically during runtime,
and uses it's regular \fI100.NMAX\fP bytes units (assuming the
standard \fI<snapshot/body.h>\fP).
.PP
The total is hence \fI560.NMAX\fP bytes.
.SH AUTHOR
Sverre Aarseth, Peter Teuben (NEMO adaptations)
.SH FILES
.nf
~/src/aarseth/nbody2	
$NEMO/doc/nbody2.tex
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
nbody0(1NEMO), hackcode1(1NEMO), quadcode(1NEMO), newton0(1NEMO)
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
3-jul-89	V1.0: created + NEMO interfaces to fortran source	PJT
27-oct-89	-cosmetic-   	PJT
mar-93    	initial formal release     	SJA
dec-93    	released (u3 and u4 modified)                 	SJA
16-mar-95	fixed a rand->rand2 common block name conflict	SJA
jun-97     	adopted into NEMO (usr->src)
18-dec-99       1/2 bug fix in ALPHAS line in define.f  PJT/SJA/xxx
9-feb-2017	add kz(19) option
.fi
