.TH NBODY1 1NEMO "18 December 1999"
.SH NAME
nbody1 - direct summation N-body integrator with variable timestep
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnbody1  <  parameter_file > log_file\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fInbody1\fP is a direct N-body integrator, \fIi.e.\fP for
each particle the force due to all other N-1 particles is calculated,
hence the computational time grows approximately as N*N.
.PP
Each particle is followed with its own integration step - an essential
feature when the dynamical times of different particles vary a lot.
A complete description is given in Aarseth (1985).
.PP
This version is the formal release of the toy code, as published
in Binney & Tremaine (1987)(see also \fInbody0(1NEMO)\fP), and
was written by Sverre Aarseth.
.PP
.SH PARAMETERS
The input parameters are given in a small ASCII \fBparameter_file\fP
(which can also be read from standard input) in the 
order as detailed below
.PP
Example input \fBparameter_file\fP for the standard 
internal benchmark
(a 25-body problem integrated for 5 crossing times):
.nf
.ta +3i
1 1.0                             	\fBKSTART TCOMP\fP
25 1 10 1                           	\fBN NFIX NRAND NRUN\fP
0.02 1.0 5.0 2.0E-05 0.03            	\fBETA DELTAT TCRIT QE EPS\fP
1 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0      	\fBKZ(J), J=1,15\fP
2.5 5.0 1.0                        	\fBALPHAS BODY1 BODYN\fP
0.5 0.0 0.0 1.0 1.0                 	\fBQ VXROT VZROT RBAR ZMBAR\fP

.fi
Note: the order of input lines may change
depending on previous ones (\fBKSTART\fP and \fBKZ\fP's in particular)
.PP
\fIDefinition of input parameters:\fP (parameters with 
a \fB*\fP start on a new line;
their type is the implicit FORTRAN specification:
[I-N] for integers, [A-H,O-Z] for floating point parameters)
.PP
.TP 15
\fB* KSTART\fP
Control index (1: new run; >1: restart; >2: new params).
.TP
\fB  TCOMP   \fP
Maximum computing time in minutes, if the software knows how to compute it.
.TP
\fB* N       \fP
Total particle number (the program is compiled with a maximum, NMAX)
.TP
\fB  NFIX    \fP
Output frequency, in terms of \fBDELTAT\fP,
of data save or binaries (option 3 & 6).
.TP
\fB  NRAND   \fP
Random number sequence skip.
.TP
\fB  NRUN    \fP
Run identification index.
.TP
\fB* ETA     \fP
Time-step accuracy parameter for total force polynomial.
.TP
\fB  DELTAT  \fP
Output time interval in units of the crossing time.
.TP
\fB  TCRIT   \fP
Termination time in units of the crossing time.
.TP
\fB  QE      \fP
Energy tolerance (stop if DE/E > 5*QE & KZ(2) <= 1; restart if KZ(2) > 1)
.\" Energy tolerance (stop if DE/E > 5*QE & KZ(2) > 0).
.TP
\fB  EPS     \fP
Softening parameter.
.TP
\fB* KZ(J)   \fP
Non-zero options for alternative paths (see table below).
.TP
\fB* ALPHAS  \fP
Power-law index for initial mass function. (option 4 not 2)
.TP
\fB  BODY1   \fP
Maximum particle mass (before scaling, if scaling option KJ(10) choosen).
.TP
\fB  BODYN   \fP
Minimum particle mass before scaling.
.TP
\fB* Q       \fP
Virial ratio (Q = 0.5 for equilibrium).
.TP
\fB  VXROT   \fP
XY-velocity scaling factor (> 0 for solid-body rotation).
.TP       
\fB  VZROT   \fP
Z-velocity scaling factor (not used if VXROT = 0).
.TP       
\fB  RBAR    \fP
Virial radius in pc (for scaling to physical units).
.TP       
\fB  ZMBAR   \fP
Mean mass in solar units.
.TP       
\fB* NFRAME  \fP
Maximum number of movie frames (option 7).
.TP       
\fB  DELTAF  \fP
Time interval for movie output (in units of crossing time).
.TP       
\fB* XCM     \fP
Displacement for subsystem (option 8).
.TP       
\fB  ECC     \fP
Eccentricity of relative motion for subsystem (ECC =< 1).
.TP       
\fB* SEMI    \fP
Semi-major axis of binary orbit (options 10 & 12).
.TP       
\fB  ECC     \fP
Eccentricity of binary.
.PP
\fIDefinition of options KZ:\fP
.TP 
\fBKZ(J)   \fP
.nf
  1  COMMON save on unit 1 if TCOMP > CPU or if TIME > TCRIT.
  2  COMMON save on unit 2 at output (=1); restart if DE/E > 5*QE <=2).
  3  Basic data written to unit 3 at output time (frequency NFIX). File: \fBOUT3\fP
  4  Initial conditions on unit 4 (=1: output; =2: input; 3=input+output).
  5  Initial conditions (=0: uniform & isotropic; =1: Plummer law).
  6  Output of significant binaries on printout.
  7  Output of movie frames on unit 7 (read \fBNFRAME, DELTAF\fP).
  8  Generation of two subsystems (merger experiment) (read \fBXCM, ECC\fP).
  9  Individual bodies printed at output time (MIN(5**KZ9,N)).
 10  No scaling of initial conditions to physical units.
 11  Modification of ETA by tolerance QE.
 12  Initial parameters for binary orbit (read \fBSEMI, ECC\fP).
 13  Escaper removal (R > 2*RTIDE; RTIDE = 10*RSCALE).
 14  Adjustment of coordinates & velocities to c.m. condition.
 15  --read but not used--
.fi
.br
.SH INPUT ORDER
The order of the input lines is very important, 
and can depend on previous lines. Here's
a sketch that hopefully helps you in creating input parameter
files. Basically there are two types of input files: 1) a new run,
and 2) restart of an unfinished run.
.nf
.ta +5i

read: KSTART, TCOMP
if KSTART=1 then          \fInew run\fP
    read: N, NFIX, NRAND, NRUN                        	input.f
    read: ETA, DELTAT, TCRIT, QE, EPS                 	input.f
    read: KZ(J),J=1,15                                	input.f

    if KZ(4)=2 then
        read(unit 4)                                  	data.f
    else
        read: ALPHAS, BODY1, BODYN                    	data.f
    endif

    if KZ(12)>0 then
        read: SEMI, ECC                               	data.f
    endif
    read: Q, VXROT, VZROT, RBAR, ZMBAR                	scale.f

    if KZ(7)>0 then
        read: NFRAME, DELTAF                          	scale.f
    endif
    
    if KZ(8)>0 then
        read: XCM, ECC                                	subsys.f
    endif
else 
    read (unit=1)       \fIrestart\fP             	nbody1.f
    if (KSTART>2)       \fIrestart with new parameters\fP
        if KSTART=4 then
            ...
        else
            read: DELTAT, TNEXT, TCRIT, QE, J, KZ(J)   	modify.f
        endif
        if KSTART>=4 then
            read: ETA                                 	modify.f
        endif
    endif
endif
.fi
.SH BENCHMARK
The following machines have been used to time this routine on the standard
benchmark as described in the PARAMETERS section before:
.nf
.ta +2i +1i
\fImachine\fP             	\fIcpu(sec)\fP	\fIcompiler/options\fP

DEC DS3000/400-alpha       	1.6

CONVEX C3                	1.94	-O0
CONVEX C3               	1.72	-O1
CONVEX C3                 	1.21	-O2 (+vect)
CONVEX C3                	2.98	-O3 (+paral)

Indigo 1                     	2.3

DEC 5000/240               	3.8

SS10/30                      	4.1             
SS2 4/...                    	9.3
SS1 4/60                   	20.6
SUN 3/60                    	71.7              
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Sverre Aarseth
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +0.5i
fort.1	common block restart dump file (option 1)
fort.2	common block restart dump file (option 2)
OUT3	output file (option 3)
fort.4	initial conditions input or output file  (option 4)
fort.7	formatted frame files (option 7)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
u3tos(1NEMO), u4tos(1NEMO), stou4(1NEMO)
.PP
Website of all codes: https://www.ast.cam.ac.uk/~sverre/web/pages/nbody.htm
.PP
Aarseth, S.J. IAU colloquium 16, 
\fI The Gravitational N-Body Problem\fP, ed. M. Lecar, p.373.
.PP
\fIDirect Methods for N-Body Simulations\fP by S.J. Aarseth in: 
\fIMultiple Time Scales\fP, eds. J.U. Brackbill & B.L. Cohen, 
Academic Press, p. 377 (1984).
.PP
NBODY0 source code in Binney & Tremaine's \fIGalactic Dynamics\fP 
(Princeton University Press, 1987). pp.678.
.PP
\fISmall-N Systems\fP by S.J. Aarseth in: \fIXXX\fP
eds. Benz, Barnes and XXX (\fIto be published\fP, 1994)
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
6-apr-93	manual page written	PJT
9-apr-93	unit.4 I/O now full REAL*4	PJT/SJA
25-may-93	man	PJT
26-mar-94	man	PJT
18-dec-99	1/2 bug fix in ALPHAS line in define.f	PJT/SJA/xxx
.fi
