.!.EQ
.!delim ##
.!.EN
.TH NEWTON0 1NEMO "20 February 2004"
.SH NAME
newton0, newton0tree, newton0reg \- nbody codes with equal time steps
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnewton0\fP
[\fBin=\fPinfile]
[\fBlastout=\fPlastoutfile]
[\fBout=\fPoutfile]
[\fBsave=\fPsavefile]
[\fBrestore=\fPrestorefile]
[\fBresume=\fPresumefile]
[\fBrestart=\fPrestartfile]
[\fBnbody=\fPinteger]
[\fBseed=\fPinteger]
[\fBt_begin=\fPreal]
[\fBt_end=\fPreal]
[\fBdt_minor=\fPreal]
[\fBdt_major=\fPreal]
[\fBdt_save=\fPreal]
[\fBdt_max=\fPreal]
[\fBnstep=\fPinteger]
[\fBmin_pairdist=\fPreal]
[\fBde_max=\fPreal]
[\fBnstep_de=\fPinteger]
[\fBcpu_max=\fPreal]
[\fBcpu_last_call=\fPreal]
[\fBeta_acc=\fPreal]
[\fBr0_soft=\fPreal]
[\fBsoft_focus=\fPsofteningtype]
[\fBtimestep=\fPtimestepcriterion]
[\fBdiagnostics=\fPdiagnosticstype]
[\fBscheme=\fPintegrationscheme]
[\fBheadline=\fPstring]

\fBnewton0tree\fP
[...same as in newton0...]
[\fBtol=\fPreal]
[\fBcelldivision=\fPcelldivisionmethod]

\fBnewton0reg\fP
[...same as in newton0...]
[\fBniter=\fPinteger]

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fInewton0\fP is a simple type of gravitational many-body code: simple
in the sense of giving all particles equal time steps at any given
time (although the length of this shared time step does change in time
in an adaptive fashion; see below). Apart from this limitation the
code is rather flexible: it gives a choice of a number of integration
schemes which can be invoked on the command line; a choice of various
softening procedures; a choice of time step criterion; a choice of
diagnostics provided during the run; and it has a wide choice of
start-up options, from a snapshot, or a previously saved system state,
or from scratch in which case newton0 produces a Plummer model.

\fInewton0tree\fP is an extension to \fInewton0\fP in which a
hierarchical force calculation is performed using an adaptive Eulerian
tree scheme (J. Barnes and P. Hut 1986, \fINature \fB324\fR, 446),
which reduces the number of pairwise force calculations per timestep
from order #N sup 2# to order #N log N# .

\fInewton0reg\fP is an extension to \fInewton0\fP in which a full
pairwise regularization scheme is implemented, based on the
Kustaanheimo_Stiefel four-dimensional regularization, as generalized
by D.C. Heggie, \fICelestial Mechanics \fB10\fR, 217 (1974); and
implemented following the recipes given by S. Mikkola, \fI Mon. Not.
R. astr. Soc.  \fB215\fR, 171 (1985). The order of the system of
equations is raised from the usual #6 N# to #4N(N-1)+1#.

The code has been written in a highly structured, modular and flexible
way (see the \fINewton0 Primer\fP). It can thus serve as a blueprint
for more advanced gravitational many-body integration modules.  Its
generality makes it suitable for experimentation with different
integration, softening, timestep and diagnostics schemes.  When using
\fInewton0\fP in production runs it may be advisable to throw out some
of the unneeded embellishments, and to optimize the inner loops -- but
remember: \fIpremature optimization is the root of all evil\fP (or at
least of most).  
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized; they may be given in any order.
.TP 25
\fBin=\fP\fIinfile\fP
If \fIinfile\fP is specified, a nbody snapshot is read in from this file
(a quick way of preparing a simple system for testing purposes is to
use \fI snapenter(1NEMO)\fP).
The command line parameters are used to determine the type and
duration of the integration, and the modes of output. Only one of the
files \fIinputfile\fP, \fIrestorefile\fP, \fIresumefile\fP may be
specified: if none are specified, a new Plummer model is generated
(Default: no file specification).
.TP
\fBlastout=\fP\fIlastoutfile\fP
If \fIlastoutfile\fP is specified, then output data are written into this
file in standard snapshot format at the end of the integration. Since
only one output is performed, the integration can be viewed as a black
box which maps an in-state to an out-state without any clutter of
intermediate information.  This option is useful for testing purposes,
since the \fIlastoutfile\fPs of two different runs can be compared
directly, for example using \fIsnapdiff(1NEMO)\fP; using snapdiff on
two \fIoutfile\fPs would only compare the echos of the initial states,
and later states would have to be extracted using \fIsnaptrim(1NEMO)\fP
before passing them to \fIsnapdiff(1NEMO)\fP (Default: no file specification).
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIoutfile\fP
If \fIoutfile\fP is specified, then output data are written into this
file in standard snapshot format, at time intervals regulated by
\fIdt_min_out\fP and \fIdt_maj_out\fP (see below; Default: no file
specification). 
.TP
\fBsave=\fP\fIsavefile\fP
If \fIsavefile\fP is specified, the whole system state is saved
periodically at time intervals \fIdt_save\fP. (Default: no file
specification). 
.TP
\fBrestore=\fP\fIrestorefile\fP
If \fIrestorefile\fP is specified, a previously saved system state is
read in from this file.  The command line parameters are ignored (in
contrast to the following option below), and the system is run to
completion solely according to the information contained in
\fIrestorefile\fP. Thus, unless \fIrestorefile\fP contains an
interrupted run, no integration will take place since \fIt_end\fP will
already have been reached. Only one of the files \fIinputfile\fP,
\fIrestorefile\fP, \fIresumefile\fP may be specified: if none are
specified, a new Plummer model is generated (Default: no file
specification). 
.TP
\fBresume=\fP\fIresumefile\fP
If \fIresumefile\fP is specified, a previously saved system state is
read in from this file.  The command line parameters are used (in
contrast to the previous option above)
to determine the type and duration of the integration, and the modes of
output. Only one of the files \fIinputfile\fP, \fIrestorefile\fP,
\fIresumefile\fP may be specified: if none are specified, a new
Plummer model is generated (Default: no file specification).
.TP
\fBrestart=\fP\fIrestartfile\fP
If \fIrestartfile\fP is specified, newton0 will deposit into this file
a command which will continue the present run after a systemcrash as
if nothing had happened. Specifying a \fIrestartfile\fP will be
ignored if no  \fIsavefile\fP is specified as well. If both files are
given, then the system is supposed to execute the \fIrestartfile\fP
automatically at reboot time (through some sort of specification in
some sort of system file), and all will be well again, one hopes
(Default: no file specification).
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fIinteger\fP
number of particles in a newly generated Plummer model (Default:
\fInbody\fP=3).
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fIinteger\fP
seed for the random number generator used in generating a new Plummer model
(default: a value 0, which will
be converted into a unique new value using UNIX's clock time, in
seconds since once-upon-a-time-in-the-seventies-of-the-previous-century).
See also \fIxrandom(1NEMO)\fP for more info on seed=
.TP
\fBt_begin=\fP\fIreal\fP
time at which the integration starts (Default: \fBt_begin=\fP0.0).
.TP
\fBt_end=\fP\fIreal\fP
time at which the integration will halt (Default: \fBt_end=\fP1.0).
.TP
\fBdt_minor=\fP\fIreal\fP
time intervals between minor outputs, when diagnostics are
printed on the standard output channel and diagnostics are added to
\fIoutfile\fP in snapshot format (Default: \fBdt_minor=\fP0.5).
.TP
\fBdt_major=\fP\fIreal\fP
time intervals between major outputs, when diagnostics are
printed on the standard output channel and diagnostics as well as a
complete set of particle data are added to \fIoutfile\fP in snapshot
format (Default: \fBdt_major=\fP1.0).
.TP
\fBdt_save=\fP\fIreal\fP
time intervals between saving a complete system state (Default:
\fBdt_save=\fP0.5). 
.TP
\fBdt_max=\fP\fIreal\fP
maximum length of the allowed integration time step which is shared
between all particles (Default: \fBdt_max=\fP1000).
.TP
\fBnstep=\fP\fIinteger\fP
maximum number of integration steps, after which execution of the
program is halted immediately (Default: \fBnstep=\fP10000000).
.TP
\fBmin_pairdist=\fP\fIreal\fP
minimum allowed (softened) pair distance. If any pair of particles
anywhere in the system attains a (softened) separation smaller than
\fImin_pairdist\fP integration is halted. Note: when using softening,
the pair distance measured is the softened distance between two
particles. Specifying a minimum allowed pair distance smaller than the
effective softening length therefore cannot halt integration (Default:
\fBmin_pairdist=\fP0.0).
.TP
\fBde_max=\fP\fIreal\fP
maximum amount of drift allowed in the total energy of the system. If
the total energy changes by more than this amount, integration is
halted. The frequency with which this test is applied is governed by
the parameter \fInstep_de\fP as described below (Default:
\fBde_max=\fP10000000). 
.TP
\fBnstep_de=\fP\fIinteger\fP
indicates the number of time steps after which the total energy value
is checked against \fIde_macs\fR. 
(Default: \fBnstep_de=\fP10000000).
.TP
\fBcpu_max=\fP\fIreal\fP
maximum amount of CPU time allowed (expressed in minutes),
after which execution of the
program is halted immediately (Default: \fBcpu_max=\fP10000000).
.TP
\fBcpu_last_call=\fP\fIreal\fP
soft limit on the amount of CPU time used (expressed in minutes):
after this amount has been exceeded, execution of the program will be
halted at the time of the next major output. This allows a more
graceful exit than the above hard option of \fIcpu_max\fP. Notice,
however, that it may be prudent to give suitable limits for both these
parameters, since an extreme condition such as a very close encounter
may slow down simulated time to such an extent that the time of the
next scheduled major output may "never" be reached (Default:
\fBcpu_last_call=\fP10000000).
.TP
\fBeta_acc=\fP\fIreal\fP
dimensionless integration accuracy parameter, 
used in determining the size of the integration time step: the step
length is taken as the small fraction \fIeta_acc\fP of the projected
collision time. The latter is defined as follows: the relative
distance and speed in each particle pair is determined, and from these
the time scale of change defined as the ratio of the relative speed
and the relative distance; the minimum of all these time scales is the
projected collision time (Default: \fBeta_acc=\fP0.01).
.TP
\fBr0_soft=\fP\fIreal\fP
softening length used to soften the potential of a point mass
according to the type of softening specified by \fIsoft_focus\fP (see
below; Default: \fBr0_soft=\fP0.0).
.TP
\fBsoft_focus=\fP\fIsofteningtype\fP
type of softening used to soften the potential of a point mass. The
following options are implemented: \fIplummer\fP specifies the
traditional softening in which each point particle assumes the
potential of a density distribution according to a small Plummer model;
\fIpower4\fP is a generalization of the previous one in which the
square of the softening length is replaced by the fourth power, giving
a shorter range for the softening; \fIpower8\fP is a similar
generalization to the eight power; \fIexponential\fP is again similar,
but has an exponentially short range; \fIsphere\fP replaces each point
particle by a homogeneous sphere; \fIshell\fP replaces each point
particle by a homogeneous shell; \fIspline\fP replaces each point
particle by a cubic spline with compact support
(Default: \fBsoft_focus=\fPplummer).
.TP
\fBtimestep=\fP\fItimestepcriterion\fP
criterion for determinening the next timestep. Currently only two
criteria are provided: \fIconstant\fR implies a constant time step
equal to the value of \fIeta_acc\fR; and \fIcollision_time\fR which
adaptively determines the timestep as the fraction \fIeta_acc\fR of
the timescale on which the first pair configuration changes
significantly. Expressed more accurately: the relative distance and
speed in each particle pair is determined, and from these the time
scale of change which would be the time scale for a collision if
position and velocity would be parallel and opposite; hence the name
(Default: \fBtimestep=\fPconstant).
.TP
\fBdiagnostics=\fP\fIdiagnosticstype\fP
choice of diagnostics output, in binary as well as in ascii. This will
be a place where a large variety of types of diagnostics can be
offered in future versions. Presently only one type is implemented
(Default: \fBdiagnostics=\fPstandard).
.TP
\fBscheme=\fP\fIintegrationscheme\fP
integration scheme used to integration Newton's equations of motion
for the whole system state (modeled as a set of 2*nbody*NDIM
simultaneous nonlinear ordinary differential equations). The
following options are implemented: \fIforward_euler\fP,
\fIbackward_euler\fP, \fIrunge_kutta_2\fP, \fIrunge_kutta_4\fP,
\fIrunge_kutta_6\fP, \fIrk_fehlberg_45\fP. The first two are forward
Euler and backwards Euler schemes, respectively; the next three are
Runge-Kutta schemes of 2nd, 4th and 6th order, respectively; and the
last one is a Runge-kutta-Fehlberg scheme of combined 4th and 5th
order (the present implementation uses only the final, 5th order
Runge-Kutta information of this last scheme) (Default:
\fBscheme=\fPrunge_kutta_4 for NEWTON0 and NEWTON0REG;
\fBscheme=\fPleapfrog for NEWTON0TREE).
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP\fIstring\fP
Optional headline, which is written as the first item in the snapshot
file, the next item being the snapshot itself (Default for NEWTON0:
"Newton0code: equal time steps"; for NEWTON0REG: "Newton0 code: equal
time steps & regularization"; for NEWTON0TREE: "Newton0 code: equal
time steps & hierarchical tree forces").
.TP
\fBtol=\fP\fIreal\fP
ONLY for NEWTON0TREE: the tolerance parameter, which determines which
cells are subdivided: for example, in the simplest \fIcelldivisonmethod\fP
(see below), whenever the ratio of cell size over cell distance
to a body is smaller than \fItol\fR, the interaction between the cell
and the body is computed directly without further subdivision
(Default: \fBtol=\fR1.0).
.TP
\fBcelldivision=\fP\fIcelldivisonmethod\fP
ONLY for NEWTON0TREE: the method used to decide when to subdivide a
cell from which one wants to compute the gravitational attraction on
an individual particle. The simplest method, \fIconstant_theta\fR,
applies a constant opening-angle criterion
(Default: \fBcelldivision=\fRconstant_theta).
.TP
\fBniter=\fP\fIinteger\fP
ONLY for NEWTON0REG: number of iterations performed in trying to
arrive at the correct time to end the integration (since integration is
with respect to pseudo-time, the end of an integration time step can
only be predicted roughly with respect to real time; iterating with
increasing smaller timestep helps to zoom in on the correct end-time;
Default: \fBniter=\fR3).
.SH SEE ALSO
mkplummer(1NEMO), nbody0(1NEMO)
.PP
STARLAB: http://www.sns.ias.edu/~starlab/
.SH CAVEATS
\fBnewton0\fP has not been maintained for a long time, the code was 
revived in 2001 as version 2.0, but for any serious research codes
such as the \fBnbodyX\fP series written by S.Aarseth (see e.g.
\fInbody0(1NEMO)\fP) or the \fIstarlab\fP package should be used.
.SH BUGS
Running the code with a file named \fIsavefile\fP lying around tricks
poor newton0 into assuming that it has just been restored to the land
of the living and that it should resume the task of its previous
reincarnation left undone according to the contents of \fIsavefile\fP.
Another bug: if intended to be restored automatically this way, simply
reissuing the original command will revive the last saved system as
advertised, but only after removing (or better: renaming) the old
\fIoutfile\fP, since \fInewton0\fP is civilized enough to refuse to
overwrite the contents of the old \fIoutfile\fP. One can then manually
concatenate the new and old \fIoutfile\fP after completion of the run.
.PP
The \fINewton0 Primer\fP is lost...
.SH AUTHOR
Piet Hut
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
NEMO/src/nbody/evolve/newton0	source code
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
25-May-87	Version 1.0: created         	PIET
5-feb-01	V2.0: converted for NEMO V3	PJT
20-feb-04	2.0a: integrated in NEMO V3, fixed an I/O problem	PJT
.nf
