.TH ORBDIM 1NEMO "1 June 1988" 
.SH NAME
orbdim \- compute dimensionaly of phase space for an orbit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBorbdim in=\fPorbit [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIorbdim\fP computes the dimensionalty of phase space for an orbit.
It uses the method described by Carnevalli and Santangelo.
.PP
Other methods, such as SALI (see Manos & Athanassoula), exist.
.PP
\fIorbdim\fP needs a lot of data before the exponent can be reliably
determined. In practice a 3 dimensional orbit is excluded from
this analysis. It can be done with 2 dimensional orbits though.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIorbit(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.SH CI
A number of Chaos Indicators (CI) are listed by Carpinetro et al:
.nf

LIs: Lyapunov Indicators (there are several)
MEGNO: Mean Exponential Growth factor of Nearby Orbits 
SElLCE: Slope Estimation of the largest Lyapunov Characteristic Exponent 
SALI: Smaller ALignment Index 
GALI: Generalized ALignment Index 
FLI: Fast Lyapunov Indicator 
OFLI: Orthogonal Fast Lyapunov Indicator 
SD: Spectral Distance
SSNs: dynamical Spectra of Stretching Numbers 
RLI: Relative Lyapunov Indicator

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
runlpvi(1NEMO)
.nf
Carnevali, P. and Santangelo, P., 1984. \fIApJ\fP \fB281\fP 473-476.
Manos, T and Athanassoula, E. - Smaller Alignment Index (SALI)
Carpintero, D.D. - 	arXiv:0805.2532v1 (2008)
Maffione et al. - arXiv:1108.5481v1 (2011) - MEGNO (Mean Exponential Growth factor of Nearby Orbits)
Zotos - arXiv:1209.1708 - the f-indictor as an indicator for chaos detection
Carpintero et al 2014 - LP-VIcode - http://lp-vicode.fcaglp.unlp.edu.ar/ - 
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
pollux:/usr3/teuben/orbit	authors original sources
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +2.0i +4.0i
.fi
