.TH ORBINTV 1NEMO "10 February 2004"
.SH NAME
orbintv \- integrating single stellar orbit with variable timestep
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBorbintv in=\fPorbit \fBout=\fPorbit [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBorbintv\fP will integrate a stellar orbit using a higher order
variable timestep. A number of constant timestepping algorithms are implemented
in \fIorbint(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
Currently two choices for the integratore can be made:
\fBmode=dopri5\fP uses an explicit Runge-Kutta method of
order (4)5 due to Dormand & Prince with step size control and dense output.
\fBmode=dop853\fP uses an explicit Runge-Kutta method of
order 8(5,3) due to Dormand & Prince with step size control and dense output.
.PP
Non-rotating potentials are also supported, but only with the
rotation axis defined along the Z-axis.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIorbit(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, will be in \fIorbit(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBdtout=\fP
Output timestep.
.TP
\fBtstop=\fP
Stop time [default: \fB10\fP].
.TP
\fBdt=\fItime-step\fP
initial guess for the time step to be taken.
[default: \fB0.01\fP].
.TP
\fBndiag=\fInumber\fP
number of output timesteps when diagnostics are checked and output
to \fIstderr\fP. Use 0 when never.
[default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBpotname=\fIname\fP
name of file of \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP descriptor. If no name
given, the potential name of the input orbit is used.
[default: none].
.TP
\fBpotpars=\fIpar-list\fP
List of parameters to the potential descriptor. The first
parameter MUST be the pattern speed in the x-y plane.
The remaining parameters are used by the
\fI_inipotential()\fP routine in the potential descriptor.
[default: none - use default from input orbit].
.TP
\fBpotfile=\fIname\fP
name of an optional datafile to the potential descriptor.
This might be an N-body snapshot or list of spline fit
coefficients etc. [default: none - use default from input
orbit].
.TP
\fBmode=\fIint_mode\fP
Specify the integration mode. Any one of \fBdopri5\fP,
\fBdop853\fP
[Default: \fBdopri5\fP].
.TP
\fBtol=\fP
Tolerance used by the integrators to control time stepping.
Negative numbers will cause this number to raised to the
power 10.
[Default: -7]
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example launches a particle from the Y axis (at y=1)
in the X direction (speed 0.4) in a plummer potential. Although
the 6D initial conditions are fully specified, so a potential
(potname=) is not needed, it is tagged along with the orbit, such
that the orbint integrator will use it. The integrated orbit is
then passed on to a simple plotting program, which plots an X-Y 
view of this 2D orbit.
.nf
mkorbit - x=0 y=1 z=0 vx=0.4 vy=0 vz=0 potname=plummer |\\
     orbintv - - tstop=10 dt=0.05 |\\
     orbplot -
Using pattern speed = 0
pos: 0.000000 1.000000 0.000000  
vel: 0.400000 0.000000 0.000000  
etot: -0.627107
lz=-0.400000
Pattern speed=0
.fi
.SH CAVEAT
For large values of the output timestep, energy conservation may not seem
very good. This is a result of the dense output interpolator.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkorbit(1NEMO), orblist(1NEMO), orbint(1NEMO), potential(5NEMO), newton0(1NEMO)
.PP

.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben (NEMO adaptation)
Hairer & G. Wanner (Fortran version of core integrators)
J.Colinge (C versions of the core integrators)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
src/orbit/misc  	orbintv.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
15-may-11	V1.0: created	PJT
.fi
