.TH ORBINT 1NEMO "3 February 1998"
.SH NAME
orbint \- integrating single stellar orbit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBorbint in=\fPorbit \fBout=\fPorbit [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBorbint\fP will integrate a stellar orbit. It is currently implemented
with a few simple constant-timestepping algorithms with
minimal support for diagnostics and restart options. For fancy
integrators see for example
the \fInewton0(1NEMO)\fP family of orbit integrators.
.PP
Non-rotating potentials are also supported, but only with the
rotation axis defined along the Z-axis.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIorbit(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, will be in \fIorbit(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBnsteps=\fInumber\fP
number of integration steps [default: \fB10\fP].
.TP
\fBdt=\fItime-step\fP
time step (constant) to be taken [default: \fB0.1\fP].
.TP
\fBndiag=\fInumber\fP
number of timesteps when diagnostics are checked and output
to \fIstdout\fP.
[default: \fB10\fP].
.TP
\fBnsave=\fInumber\fP
number of timesteps when data must be save to output orbit-file.
Note that the program must have run to completion before the
actual saved data are saved to the specified output file.
[default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBpotname=\fIname\fP
name of file of \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP descriptor. If no name
given, the potential name of the input orbit is used.
[default: none].
.TP
\fBpotpars=\fIpar-list\fP
List of parameters to the potential descriptor. The first
parameter MUST be the pattern speed in the x-y plane.
The remaining parameters are used by the
\fI_inipotential()\fP routine in the potential descriptor.
[default: none - use default from input orbit].
.TP
\fBpotfile=\fIname\fP
name of an optional datafile to the potential descriptor.
This might be an N-body snapshot or list of spline fit
coefficients etc. [default: none - use default from input
orbit].
.TP
\fBmode=\fIint_mode\fP
Specify the integration mode. Any one of \fBeuler\fP,
\fBleapfrog1\fP, \fBleapfrog2\fP or \fBrk4\fP can be given.
[Default: \fBrk4\fP].
.TP
\fBeta=\fP
Relative error allowed in energy conservation. Integration is
terminated if the relative error (|dE/E|) is too large. By default
not used.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
potential(5NEMO), newton0(1NEMO)
.SH TIMING
.nf
.ta +2.0i
With fpa on SUN 3/50 (~16Mhz) 1000 integration steps
potential=harmonic	1"
potential=plummer	1"
potential=bar83  	3"
potential=hackforce	10" (100 bodies, standard Plummer model)
potential=hackforce	30" (500 bodies)
potential=hackforce	50" (2000 bodies)
potential=hackforce	80" (8000 bodies)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
src/orbit/misc  	orbint.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
xx-jul-87	V1.0: Created: simple Eulerian	PJT
2-May-88	V2.2: many changes + doc; leapfrog implemented	PJT
2-Jun-88	V2.3: new filestruct, code same   	PJT
14-jun-91	V2.5: added variety of options, removed various bugs	PJT
26-mar-92	V2.5b: documented that rot.potentials are OK -   	PJT
24-may-92	V2.6: default potential now taken from orbit	PJT
9-jun-92	V2.7: fixed rotating potential bug	PJT
19-apr-95	V3.1: various, rk4 is now default integrator	PJT
3-feb-98	V3.4: added eta= to control termination if errors bad 	PJT
.fi
