.TH ORBNAME 1NEMO "6 December 1993"
.SH NAME
orbname \- Orbit classification and plotting
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBorbname\fP \fBin=\fP\fIorbit\fP [parameter=value ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBorbname\fP attempts to classify an orbit.
Currently only orbits
in non-rotating triaxial potentials are handled properly.
It can distinguish between
\fBBox\fP, (long axis) \fBX-Tube\fP, \fBY-Tube\fP, and 
(short axis) \fBZ-Tube\fP orbits,
based on the predominant angular momentum axis (J_i, i=X,Y,Z).
This program cannot distinguish between  the so-called
\fBinner-\fP and \fBouter-X-Tube\fP orbits.
Anything else is labeled as \fBUnknown\fP.
.PP
Note that orbits with very long or short periods cannot be reliably
classified, either because they have simply not been tracked long enough,
or because they may be scattered from one orbital family
to another.
.PP
\fBorbname\fP will, for each dimension (X,Y,Z),
tabulate the number of angular momentum \fIflips\fP and velocity
\fIflips\fP,
\fItau\fP (the ratio of mean to dispersion of the angular momentum), 
\fInu\fP (the ratio of half the sum of min and max to dispersion),
the \fIminimum\fP and \fImaximum\fP angular momentum, 
and their \fImean\fP and \fIdispersion\fP. 
.PP
The ratios \fItau\fP and \fInu\fP (under control of the user,
see \fBtaumin=\fP and \fBnumin=\fP below) are
used to classify an orbit has having a significant
amount of angular moment along an axis. In addition, if an axis
has no flips in angular momentum, it is also counted has having
angular moment along that axis. This gives a total of three methods
to classify orbits. There are output under the names
\fBF_Category\fP (J-flipping), \fBT_Category\fP (tau)
and \fBN_Category\fP (nu).
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIin_orbit\fP
Input orbit(s), in standard \fIorbit(5NEMO)\fP format.
.TP
\fBtaumin=\fP\fItau_min\fP
Minimum mean/sigma J_i needed to count as significant angular momentum.
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBnumin=\fP\fInu_min\fP
Minimum ratio of half the sum of min and max to their
sigma J_i needed to count as significant angular momentum.
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBplot=t|f\fP
Logical to denote if a 6 panels with evolution of angular momentum 
and (XY,YZ,XZ) need to be plotted. See \fByapp(5NEMO)\fP.
[Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
\fBtmax=\fP
Maximum time to plot. Default: autoscale from the orbit.
.TP
\fBrmax=\fP
Maximum X,Y,Z extent to plot. Default: autoscale from -\fBrmax\fP 
to \fBrmax\fP.
.TP
\fBjmax=\fP
Maximum Jx,Jy,Jz extent to plot. Default: autoscale from -\fBjmax\fP 
to \fBjmax\fP.
.SH BUGS
Has some problems with planar orbits and bi-axial potentials
(such as oblate, prolate and spherical).
.SH SEE ALSO
orbdim(1NEMO), mkorbit(1NEMO), orbint(1NEMO), orbit(5MEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
3-dec-93	V1.0 Created	PJT
6-dec-93	V1.1 added nu	pjt
.fi
