.TH ORBOOM 1NEMO "2 January 2020"
.SH NAME
orboom \- Transform an orbit and ODM into 'BOOM' HDF [still testing]
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBorboom\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is under development for the BOOM project. It will take
some combination input of a simulation (series of snapshots),
orbit(s) and ODM's  [all to be determined] and turn them into a BOOM hdf
for further analysis outside of NEMO.
.PP
For the ODM (Orbit Density Map) some gridding parameters are needed
to represent a simple cube, so we only need number of pixels and box size.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIsnapshot\fP
Input series of snapshot from a  simulation. In \fIsnapshot(1NEMO)\fP format.
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output BOOM file. Currently NEMO BOOM (see hdf= below) format. No default.
.TP
\fBndim=2|3\fP
2 or 3 dimensional. Not implemented. [3]
.TP
\fBmode=0|1|2|3\fP
1,2,3 are for testing. use 0 for proper output. This option will also
likely disappear at version 1.0 [0]
.TP
\fBsize=\fP
Half the size of the ODM box, meaning the X, Y and Z coordinates
of the orbit are gridded from -size:size. This also implies we only compute
square cubes [2].
.TP
\fBnpix=\fP
Number of pixels along the X, Y or Z axes. Same number pixels
in all dimensions. [32]
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fIt0:t1,t2:t3,...\fP
What times to select for output.  which is of the form, eg, "1.0:1.5,2.5,3.0".
Currently all. The maximum number is determined by \fBnsteps=\fP.
.TP
\fBnsteps=\fP
Allocate space how many snapshots (orbit steps) we need. No options
for scanning yet.
.TP
\fBibody=\fP
If set, only this body will be output. This could be useful for debugging.
.TP
\fBodm=t|f\fP
Output ODM?
.TP
\fBhdf=t|f\fP
Output file format in HDF ?  If not, NEMO format will be used.
Currently only NEMO format is supported. [f]
.SH EXAMPLES
The current version just writes NEMO Orbit/Image file.  To extract
a certain orbit or image, here is an example
.nf
   #   create a BOOM file
   mkplummer p100 100 seed=100
   gyrfalcON  p100 p100.out step=0.1 tstop=10 eps=0.025 kmax=8 give=mxvap
   orboom p100.out p100.boom

   #   look at an orbit, an ODM, and a projected ODM along the Z axis
   csf p100.boom - Orbit 11 | orbplot -
   csf p100.boom - Image 11 | ccdfits - p100_10.fits
   csf p100.boom - Image 11 | ccdmom - - | ccdfits - p100_10_mom0.fits
   
.fi
Of course there two other ways to select that same orbit (11th one in this example)
from a simulation, but both methods need a patch for more efficiency:
.nf

   stoo p100.out - ibody=10 | tsf -     [this one is currently broken]
   snapcopy p100.out - select=i==10 ibody=10 | snapmerge - - | snapplot -    [ibody not working yet]
   
.fi
The latter one is useful to view a 3D orbit with
\fIsnapplot3(1NEMO)\fP or \fIglnemo2(1NEMO)\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
boom(5NEMO), h5dump(1), orbint(1NEMO), orbsos(1NEMO), snapgrid(1NEMO)
.fi
.SH FILES
.nf
src/orbit/misc - source code
.fi
.SH COMPILATION
Although \fBorboom\fP compiles via the Makefile (and mknemo), this is the first program in NEMO that
combines all three major objects: SnapShot, Orbit and Image, as well as links with
a 3rd party library (hdf5). Linking with hdf5 may require
some configure tricks, or simply editing $NEMOLIB/makedefs. Here are some sample commands to help
you with this:
.nf

   pkg-config --libs hdf5
   h5cc -showconfig
   dpkg --list | grep hdf5    (debian/ubuntu)
   dpkg -L libhdf5-dev        (debian/ubuntu)
   rpm -qa | grep hdf5        (redhat/centos)
   rpm -ql hdf5-devel         (redhat/centos)

.fi
.SH MEMORY USAGE
\fBorboom\fP is an example of a program that does a transpose of a matrix, which in some
parts of the parameter space can cause issues. Essentially it does
.nf
	SNAP(Na,Np,Nt) -> BOOM(Na,Nt,Np)
.fi
with of order
.nf
	Na = 11
	Np = 10,000
	Nt = 10,000
.fi
which at 8 bytes per real means about 8GB.
We have a benchmark to time just this operation, for which the example command will be
written down here at some point.   There is also the I/O component.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
26-dec-2019	V0.2 Created	PJT
2-jan-2020	V0.7 Added nsteps= and odm= PJT
.fi
