.TH ORBPLOT 1NEMO "18 April 1995"
.SH NAME
orbplot \- plot an orbit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBorbplot in=\fPorbit  [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBorbplot\fP will plot an orbit. See also \fIsnapplot(1NEMO)\fP, which
has a similar user interface.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
Input file, which must be an \fIorbit(5NEMO)\fP. [No default].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fItime-range\fP
Only plot the range of times within \fItime-range\fP, which is of the
form "tstart:tend". [default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBnplot=\fInumber\fP
The stride through the data of the plotted points [default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBxvar=\fix-expression\fP
The value of \fIx-expression\fP is plotted along the X axis.
\fIx-expression is a real-valued C language expression over the
real values \fBx, y, z, vx, vy, vz, phi, t \fP and thge integer
value \fBi\fP. See also \fIsnapplot(1NEMO)\fP. [Default: \fBx\fP].
\fI(not implemented)\fP
.TP
\fBxlabel=\fIx-axis-label\fP
Label for the X-axis. [default: expression used for \fBxvar\fP].
.TP
\fBxrange=\fIx-axis-range\fP
Range of values for the X axis, specified as a pair of numbers
separated by a colon [default: \fB-2.0:2.0\fP].
.TP
\fByvar=\fIy-expression\fP
See above. The default is \fBy\fP.
\fI(not implemented)\fP
.TP
\fBylabel=\fIy-axis-label\fP
See above.
.TP
\fByrange=\fIy-axis-range\fP
See above.
.TP
\fBvisib=\fIexpression\fP
Determines the visibility of points. \fIexpression\fP is an 
integer expression in the above variables; only points with 
non-zero values are plotted. [default: \fB1\fP].
\fI(not implemented)\fP
.TP
\fBpsize=\fIexpression\fP
Determines the points type and size. [default \fB0\fP].
\fI(not implemented)\fP
.TP
\fBmaxsteps=\fInum-steps\fP
Maximum number of steps allowed for an orbit. [Default: \fB5000\fP].
.SH BUGS
For \fBxvar=\fP and \fByvar=\fP currently only the simple variables
real values \fBx, y, z, vx, vy, vz\fP are implemented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
potential(5NEMO), newton0(1NEMO), orbit(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/orbit/misc 	orbplot.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
14-jul-87	V1.0: created by cloning off snapplot	PJT
28-jul-87	V2.0: new orbit(5)	PJT
 1-jun-88	V2.1: new filestruct, no code mod's  	PJT
 2-mar-92	filled in some blanks in the man page	PJT
18-apr-95	V2.3d: cleanup, simple bodytrans (``orbtrans'') implemented	PJT
.fi
