.TH OTOS 1NEMO "20 December 1990" 
.SH NAME
otos \- convert and combine orbits to a snapshot 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBotos in=\fPorbit \fBout=\fPsnapshot [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIotos\fP converts a set of orbits into a snapshot, as if they
are part of one big family. Selections can be made from the
orbits, as well as a simple stride through each orbit itself. More
complex selections would  have to be done using multiple runs
of \fIotos\fP, and recombining them with \fIsnapadd\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, will be in \fIorbit(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBorbit=\fIn1,n2,..\fP
Orbit numbers to select. A ordered list can be given, the word "\fBall\fP" is
reserved to select all orbits for copy. The first orbit is numbered
0. 
[default: \fBall\fP]
.TP
\fBmaxsteps=\fImax-steps\fP
Steps allocated such that largest orbit fits in here.
[default: \fB5000\fP]
.TP
\fBstride=\fIstride\fP
Stride through an orbit. If 1, all points are copied to the snapshot,
numbers larger than 1 select every \fIstride-th\fP particle from
the orbit to be copied.
[default: \fB1\fP]
.TP
\fBnbody=\fImaxbody\fP
Since the orbit file is only scanned once, we need to supply an estimate
how many bodies to allocate for the final snapshot.
[default: \fB10000\fP]
.TP
\fBscan=t|f\fP
If this mode it \fBtrue\fP, program continues to scan all orbits, according
to input parameters \fBorbit=\fP and \fBstride=\fP, even if all allocated
space in the snapshot has been filled. At the end it
reports on the total number of bodies needed.
[default: \fBf\fP]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapshot(5NEMO), orbit(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/orbit/misc   	otos.c otos.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
23-may-90	V1.0 created, seemingly in great haste...	PJT
20-dec-90	V1.1 scan= implemented; some manual page written	PJT
.fi
