.TH PLUMMER 1NEMO "5 June 2023"

.SH "NAME"
plummer \- tabulate Osipkov-Merritt generalization of Plummer model

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBplummer out=\fPout_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fIplummer\fP tabulates an Osipkov-Merritt-Plummer model.  The output
file, written in binary format, may be used with \fImkommod\fP(1NEMO).

.SH "PARAMETERS"
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBout=\fP\fIout_file\fP
Write binary \fBOsipkovMerrittModel\fP data to \fIout_file\fP.
Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBanisorad=\fP\fIanisotropy_radius\fP
Radius at which the distribution function becomes significantly
anisotropic.  If negative, an isotropic model is tabulated.  Default:
\fB-1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBmcutoff=\fP\fIfrac_mass_cutoff\fP
The output tables extend to the radius corresponding to this fraction
of the total mass.  Default: \fB0.999999\fP.
.TP
\fBntab=\fP
Number of table entries. A compiled maximum (MXTB=10000) is the maximum allowed
value. Default: \fB512\fP

.SH "EXAMPLE"

Here is an example of a rather large 100,000 Plummer sphere. This will take about 30 minutes
of integration time on a 2020 style CPU. Adjust appropriately:
.nf

# generate OM model table and snapshot
    plummer out=plummer.tab anisorad=1
    mkommod plummer.tab plummer.snap nbody=100000

# integrate this plummer model (needs about 500 MB disk space)
    gyrfalcON plummer.snap plummer.out eps=0.025 tstop=100 step=0.5 kmax=7

# plot lagrangian radii to confirm the model is in equilibrium
    snapmradii plummer.out 0.01,0.1:0.9:0.1,0.99 log=t |\\
         tabplot  - 1 2:12 line=1,1 xlab=Radius ylab="log(MassFraction)"

.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkommod(1NEMO), mkplummer(1NEMO)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Joshua E. Barnes

.SH "HISTORY"
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
.nf
2-jun-1988	original	JEB
5-jun-2023	add example	PJT
.fi
