.TH POTCODE 1NEMO "12 August 2009"
.SH NAME
potcode \- non-selfconsistent N-body code with options to dissipate/diffuse orbits
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpotcode\fP [\fIparameter\fP=\fIvalue\fP] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpotcode\fP is an equal-timestep N-body integrator which is not 
self-consistent. The forces and potential are obtained from a standard
potential descriptor, given by the three keywords
\fBpotname=,potpars=,potfile=\fP (See also \fIpotential(3,5NEMO)\fP).
If the potential is conservative, the energy will (should) be conserved,
but the user is of course free to pick any potential.
.PP
In addition to integrating the equations of motion, the particles
are allowed to loose some (\fBeta\fP) of their random energy (smoothed over
a certain ``box'' size (\fBcell\fP)), and turn it into mean orbital motion. 
.PP
Orbits can also be diffused: each timestep the velocity vector 
can be rotated over the randomly gaussian distributed angle (\fBsigma\fP).
.PP
A special integration mode (mode=-1) will advance particles assuming their orbits
are epicycles, and launched with velocities deviating from the angular
velocity consistent with rotation. The supplied potential should be
axisymmetric and numerical derivatives are used to calculate the 
angular, radial and vertical frequencies such that the orbital motions can
be solved for analytically.
from their guidance center.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized; they may be given in any order.
.TP 24
\fBin\fP=\fIin-file\fP
Initial conditions will be read from \fIin-file\fP in snapshot format
[default: none - but is required].
.TP
\fBout\fP=\fIout-file\fP
If given, results are written to \fIout-file\fP in snapshot format
[default: empty, no snapshot output file produced].
.TP
\fBpotname=\fP\fIname\fP
name of file of \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP descriptor 
[default: \fBharmonic\fP].
.TP
\fPpotpars=\fIpar-list\fP
List of parameters to the potential descriptor. The first
parameter must be the pattern speed in the x-y plane,
although rotating frames of reference are not
yet supported. The remaining parameters are used by the
\fI_inipotential()\fP routine in the potential descriptor.
[default: none - let them be defined by routine itself].
.TP
\fBpotfile=\fIfile-name\fP
name of an optional datafile to the potential descriptor.
This might be an N-body snapshot or list of spline fit
coefficients etc. [default: none].
.TP
\fBsave\fP=\fIstate-file\fP
If given, the system state will be saved in \fIstate-file\fP after each
timestep. Useful for some recovery after system crashes.
.TP
\fBfreq\fP=\fIinteg-freq\fP
Inverse time-step, to be used with the time integrator.
[Default: \fB64.0\fP (64 steps per unit time)].
.TP
\fBmode\fP=\fImode-number\fP
Integration modes, must be a number:
.nf
0=Euler (kick and drift at same time)
1=PC (Predictor Corrector) algorithm, 
2=modified PC algorithm, 
3=Runge-Kutta (JEB modified)
4=4th order Runge-Kutta.
5=leapfrog
6=modified Euler (kick done after drift)
-1=special epicyclic motion, full motion)
-2=special epicyclic motion, shows only epi motion
.fi
[default: \fB3\fp].
.TP
\fBtstop\fP=\fIstop-time\fP
Time to stop integration in N-body model units.
Default is \fB2.0\fP.
.TP
\fBfreqout\fP=\fIout-freq\fP
Frequency of major N-body data outputs.
Default is \fB4.0\fP (4 frames per unit time).
.TP
\fBminor_freqout\fP=\fIout-freq\fP
Frequency of minor diagnostic outputs.
Default is \fB32.0\fP (32 diagnostic measurements per unit time).
.TP
\fBoptions\fP=\fIoption-string\fP
Miscellaneous control options, specified as a comma-separated list
of keywords.
Currently recognized keywords are:
\fBreset_time\fP: when reading initial data, set \fItnow\fP to zero;
\fBnew_tout\fP: when restarting, set new output times;
\fBmass\fP, \fBphi\fP, \fBacc\fP: output mass, potential,
acceleration data with major data outputs.
.TP
\fBeta\fP=\fIloss-fraction\fP
Fraction of random energy that is dissipated
[Default: \fB0.0\fP].
.TP
\fBcell\fP=\fIbox-size\fP
Cell size in which dissipation is performed after every timestep.
Dissipation is current performed on a cartesian grid, in which 
cells are square (2D) or a cube (3D).
[Default: \fB0.1\fP].
.TP
\fBrmax\fP=\fImax_box-size\fP
Maximum size of the "box" (actually cube) within which dissipation
is performed. If a negative number is given, the box is allow to grow
as large as is needed, though this may consume a lot of memory.
Default: \fB-1\fP, i.e. box can grow indefinite.
.TP
\fBfheat=\fP\fIfheat\fP
The ratio of diffusion angle to rms velocity dispersion in a cell.
If \fIfheat>0\fP, each time dissipation is applied, the rms
velocity dispersion in a cell is computed, and a diffusion angle
computed. The velocity vector of each particle is then
rotated with a gaussian distributed value with rms \fIfheat*velsig\fP.
This in effect gives a dissipation dependant heating source. See also
\fBsigma=\fP, which is position independant. [Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBsigma\fP=\fIangle\fP
Diffusion angle, gaussian distributed with this sigma, about which
each velocity vector is rotated after each timestep.
[Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBseed\fP=\fIrandom-seed\fP
Random number seed, only used when diffusion (\fBsigma=\fP) is used.
0 must be used to get the random seed from the time of the day.
[Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBheadline\fP=
Identifying text for this run. Default: not used.
.SH BUGS
RK, PC and PC1 don't work in rotating potential - use EULER or RK4.
.PP
Since \fBcell\fP is a fixed number throughout the execution,
is doesn't deal well with systems who's lenght-scale changes,
in particular, expanding systems will allocate more and more
space to hold the dissipation grid.
.SH DISSIPATION
Various schemes of dissipation can be invoked. Here's one, see
also Lin & Pringle (1974):
.PP
For each cell the relative position and velocity for each particle
within that cell is computed:
.nf
        R   =  r  - <r >
         i      i     i

        V   =  v  - <v >
         i      i     i
.fi
after which the dimensionless viscosity parameter 'alpha' controls
the new velocity for each particle after a timestep:
.nf
                                 < R  x  V >
                                    j     j
        u  =  <v>  - alpha  R  x ------------   +  (1-alpha) V
         i      i            i                                i
                                 < R  .  R >
                                    j     j  
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
newton0(1NEMO), hackcode1(1NEMO), hackcode3(1NEMO), nbody0(1NEMO), snappot(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.nf
https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2004MNRAS.352.1199M (mode=-1)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.ta +1i +4i
.nf
5-feb-89	V1.0 written  	PJT
3-apr-90	V2.0 new potential(5), renamed keywords	PJT
9-jun-92	V3.0 rotating pattern are now allowed - made rk4	PJT
17-jun-92	V3.1 fix energy conservation in 'dissipation'	PJT
19-jun-92	V3.2 added diffusion	PJT
6-oct-92	V4.0 added rmax=, made options= same as hackcode1	PJT
24-oct-92	V4.1 added fheat=        	PJT
5-mar-03	V5.0 added mode=-1 to "integrate" orbits numerically on epicyclic orbits	PJT
6-jul-03	(V5.1) compute guiding center	PJT/RPO
12-aug-09	V5.1 added leapfrog and modified euler	PJT
.fi
