.TH POTCCD 1NEMO "26 February 2003"
.SH NAME
potccd \- Create an image with potentials or densities from a potential
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpotccd\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpotccd\fP stores the potential values of a potential descriptor 
(see \fPpotential(5NEMO)\fP) on a regular grid in
standard \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format. It is also possible to store the
Poissonian density, either 2D or 3D. For this numerical derivatives
of the force field are used, and hence a small difference step needs to
be given.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
Output file (image). No default.
.TP
\fBpotname=\fP
Name of the \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP. No default
.TP
\fBpotpars=\fP
Parameters for the potential.
.TP
\fBpotfile=\fP
Any optional data file associated with the potential.
.TP
\fBx=\fP
X-coordinate(s) to test potential at. This should be a regular
array, e.g. 1:10:0.2. Default: 0.
.TP
\fBy=\fP
Y-coordinate(s) to test potential at. Default: 0.
.TP
\fBz=\fP
Z-coordinate(s) to test potential at. Default: 0.
.TP
\fBt=\fP
Time to test potential at   
.TP
\fBmode=pot|ax|ay|az|ar|at|den\fP
Output mode. Choices are potential, accelerations in X, Y or Z, and
density (which needs dr>0).
Default: \fBpot\fP.
.TP
\fBdr=\fP
Difference step used to compute numerical force derivates that
are used to compute Poissonian densities. 
.TP
\fBndim=\fP
Number of dimensions used in Poissonian density computation. Should
be 2 or 3. 
.SH BUGS
With \fBndim=2\fP the Z-coordinate is not ignored, and hence may
give meaningless results if forces depend on Z.
.SH EXAMPLES
First a somewhat obscure way in to create a map of an arbitrary function
using the \fBpotname=rotcur\fP lookup table. It will use
a spline interpolation, and if \fBmode=pot\fP is used, the "potential"
is actually the "rotation curve" itself, since in general one cannot
easily compute the potential from a rotation curve without knowing
the full geometry. Here is an example how to create a smooth
radial profile of the function "f(x)=1/sqrt(4+x)" on a grid from
-10..10:
.nf
    % nemoinp 0:10 | tabmath - - '1/(sqrt(4+%1)' > map0.tab
    % potccd map0 rotcur 0 map0.tab x=-10:10:0.1 y=-10:10:0.1
.fi
If the functional form is know, \fIccdmath(1NEMO)\fP will perhaps
do better, if not a little more involved to type.
.SH SEE ALSO
potlist(1NEMO), image(5NEMO), potential(3NEMO), potential(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
10-Jun-92	V1.0 Created       	PJT
30-mar-94	V1.1 added density options (dr=, ndim=)	PJT
12-sep-02	V1.2 added mode=	PJT
.fi
