.TH POTLIST 1NEMO "19 September 2001"
.SH NAME
potlist \- list potential value and forces of a potential descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpotlist potname=\fIname\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpotlist\fP calculates the value of the potential value in
(a) user specified position(s). The potential is obtained from
data file in standard \fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP format.
.PP
In addition to the potential value, the forces, it's derivatives 
and the poissonian density are calculated. The total table will
hence contain: \fIx, y, z, ax, ay, az, phi, phixx, phiyy, phizz,
rho, dr, time\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following keywords are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBpotname=\fIname\fP
Generic name of the file which contains the description of the potential.
Some potentials require an addition data-file, see keyword \fBpotfile=\fP.
[default: none].
.TP
\fBpotpars=\fIparameters\fP
List of parameters for the model. Will all be interpreted as double 
precision numbers.
If less than the required number of parameters are given, the remainder
will be taken from default settings in the potential routine.
When too many are given, the remaining are ignored.
The first parameter, currently ignored, is reserved for pattern speed,
unless overridden with the \fBomega=\fP keyword described below.
[default: as defined by potential routine].
.TP
\fBpotfile=\fIdatafile\fP
Optional extra datafile which some potential descriptors use.
Some files need a list of spline fitted points, others need an
N-body snapshot etc.  Most potentials will ignore this keyword
though. [default: not set].
.TP
\fBx=\fIx-pos\fP
X-position(s) where potential, forces and density are calculated.
If more than one value is given, it must be consistent with the
number given in the other space coordinates. 
See \fInemoinp(1,3)\fP for rules to provide multiple values.
[default: \fB0.0\fP].
.TP
\fBy=\fIy-pos\fP
Y-position(s). See X.
[default: \fB0.0\fP].
.TP
\fBz=\fIz-pos\fP
Z-position(s). See X.
[default: \fB0.0\fP].
.TP
\fBt=\fItime\fP
If applicable, the time at which the potential is to be calculated.
[default: \fB0.0\fP].
.TP
\fBdr=\fIvalue\fP
Differential in position which is used to  numerically compute the
force derivatives to compute the Laplacian.  
The poissonian density is then obtained after 
division by 4-pi. If no number is given, the densities are not
computed, and only position, accelerations, potential and time 
are returned. Default: not used.
.TP
\fBomega=\fP\fIpattern_speed\fP
Override value for the pattern speed. Normally the pattern speed is
defined by the first argument in \fBpotpars=\fP, but this allows
you to override. Forces and potentials are correctly displayed in
the rotating frame of reference, but computing poissonian
densities would not make sense without setting \fBomega=0\fP.
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBformat=\fIfmt\fP
Format used in \fIprintf(3)\fP statement to print value. If no separator
is provided, a space will be used. [Default: \fB%g\fP]
.TP
\fBndim=2|3\fP
Number of dimensions used in Poissonian density computation. Should
be 2 or 3. 
.TP
\fdouble=t|f\fP
Force usage of Float or Double potentials. By default autodetected.
Old potentials (prior to 2001) are only available in double, which
is the default.
.SH CAVEAT
The keyword \fBdouble=\fP can force a float potential to be treated
as a double potential, and vice versa. Results can thus be meaningless
in these cases, or the program will look in untrusted memory and coredump.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
potccd(1NEMO), potential(3NEMO), potential(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.0i
~src/orbit/potential	original sources
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
13-Jul-87	V1.0: Original created	PJT
8-Apr-88	V2.0: added 'name' parameter for hackforce	PJT
5-May-88	V2.1: small mods, renamed keywords	PJT
9-feb-90	V3.0: added time dependant options, renamed keywords	PJT
26-jun-90	V3.1: can give whole array of input positions	PJT
15-oct-93	V5.1: new method(s) of getting pattern speed	PJT
17-feb-94    	V5.2: added ndim=	PJT
18-sep-01	V4.0: handle both _float and _double potentials 	PJT
.fi
