.TH POTROT 1NEMO "8 February 2005"
.SH NAME
potrot \- query a NEMO potential in the XY plane, and derive a rotation curve 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpotrot\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpotrot\fP computed the "rotation curve" (as defined by
\fIsqrt(radius*radial_force)\fP) of a potential. Single slit
rotation curves can be defined (by using a single given 
angle \fBp=\fP) as well as averaged along a set of position
angles (e.g. \fBp=0:90:2\fP).
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBpotname=\fP
Name of potential, no default.
.TP
\fBpotpars=\fP
Parameters for potential (1st one is pattern speed). See
\fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP for some examples.
.TP
\fBpotfile=\fP
Any optional data file associated with potential.
.TP
\fBr=\fP
Radii to sample. Notice for most potentials r=0 results in NaN's or 
divisions by zero and generally bad output.  [0:2:0.1]    
.TP
\fBp=\fP
Angles to sample (in degrees). If exactly two angles are given,
and \fBniter\fP > 0, an iterative approach is used (similar to the
one in \fIpotq(1NEMO)\fP) and is generally more accurate. If One
angle is given, an exact "rotation curve" along that (position)
angle is give, else an average force is used to derive the 
"rotation curve". Default: 0. (meaning slit rotation curve along 
the X axis)
.TP
\fBt=\fP
Time to test potential at, if relevant [0.0]
.TP
\fBomega=\fP
Use this instead of any returned pattern speed.
.TP
\fBformat=\fP
Format used to print numbers [%g]  
**not used yet**
.TP
\fBniter=\fP
Maximum number of iterations to find the forces from which the rotation
curve is derived. Only used if exactly two angles \fBp\fP are given.
Careful: at each iteration the sample step is halved, doubling the CPU
requirements.
[10]     
.TP
\fBeps=\fP
Relative accuracy that stops the iterations. [0.001]      
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is an example of taking a "rotation curve" along the major, minor and force average
of a Pfenniger(1984) bar. The three tables are then cut into a simpler form
and plotted using tabplot. With the default pgplot interface for 
\fIyapp\fP they are colored rsp. red, green and blue.
.nf

potrot pfenniger84 r=0.1:10:0.1 p=0      > tab1
potrot pfenniger84 r=0.1:10:0.1 p=90     > tab2
potrot pfenniger84 r=0.1:10:0.1 p=0:90:2 > tab3
tabmath tab1,tab2,tab3 - %1,%3,%6,%9 all | tabplot - 1 2,3,4 line=1,1 color=2,3,4

.fi
Here's a comparison between various methods for the same Pfenniger potential, at a radius
where the force along major and minor axis differs most:
.nf

potrot pfenniger84 r=4 p=0
4 -0.0403306 0.401649
potrot pfenniger84 r=4 p=90
4 -0.0277544 0.333193
potrot pfenniger84 r=4 p=0:90:10
4 -0.031413 0.354474
potrot pfenniger84 r=4 p=0:90:2
4 -0.0311816 0.353166
potrot pfenniger84 r=4 p=0,90
### Warning [potrot]: Testing an iterative procedure: niter=10 eps=0.001000
4 0 0.352989 8
 potrot pfenniger84 r=4 p=0,90 eps=0.0001 niter=20
4 0 0.352822 12
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
potq(1NEMO), rotcurves(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
07-Feb-05	V0.1 Created	PJT
.fi
