.TH PSTART 1NEMO "16 May 1995"
.SH NAME
pstart \- initialization routines for cosmological particle-mesh (AP3M) code
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpstart\fP \fBdir=\fP\fIrun_directory\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fPpstart\fP sets up an initial distribution of particles
in a cubic region 
for use with the \fIprun(1NEMO)\fP AP3M N-body integrator.
.PP
Particles can be randomly placed within the computational cube
or placed uniformly on a cubic lattice. In the latter case the number
of particles needs to be a perfect cube. On this initial distribution,
a low amplitude 
fluctuation spectrum is imposed. A Zel'dovich potential is
derived on the grid, which is differenced and used to displace
the particles.
.PP
The current NEMO implementation of \fPpstart\fP is a wrapper program,
with the usual nemo user interface. It creates a parameter file
and calls the fortran executable. In this way
it also hides some of the complexities of the fortran user interface.
SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBdir=\fP
working run directory. Must not exist yet. Inside the working directory
an ASCII
parameter file, \fIpstart.dat\fP will be created, which contains the
input parameters for the chained program. 
This run directory will also contain
logfiles, and subdirectories where the data and Green's functions are
stored (but see below to override).
No default.
.TP 20
\fBistart=\fP
start label. This is a non-negative integer, not to exceed 9999, which is
used as a ID label. Data and log filenames are automatically derived from this
label id. 
[\fB9999\fP]
.TP 20
\fBnobj=\fP
number of particles 
[\fB32768\fP].
.TP 20
\fBl=\fP
mesh points per side. Must be a power or 2.
[\fB32\fP].
.TP 20
\fBsoft=\fP
softening used in potential calculations for initial conditions.
[\fB0.6\fP].
.TP 20
\fBperr=\fP
max force error (%)
[\fB.0\fP].
.TP 20
\fBalpha=\fP
Accuracy parameter, see also eq. (11.2)  in Couchman (1994).
[\fB1.5\fP].
.TP 20
\fBiru=\fP
initial particle distribution (0=uniform 1=random). For a uniform
particle distribution \fIiru\fP needs to be a perfect cube.
[\fB0\fP].
.TP 20
\fBiseed1=\fP
Random number seed 1.
[\fB-1001\fP].
.TP 20
\fBiseed2=\fP
Random number seed 2, phi_k   
[\fB-10001\fP].
.TP 20
\fBrlbox=\fP
physical scaling of the box in Mpc (?)
[\fB80\fP].
.TP 20
\fBdelta=\fP
amplitude applied to input fourier modes.
[\fB0.0004\fP].
.TP 20
\fBexe=\fP
Name of the fortran derived \fPpstart\P executable file, which can reside 
anywhere as long as the host OS can resolve it's location
(e.g. under UNIX anywhere in the \fI$path\fP command search path)
[\fBpstart.exe\fP].
.TP 20
\fBgreendir=\fP
Directory to store Green's functions. Can require up to 5Mb. By default
it is placed inside the working run directory (see \fBdir=\fP)
[\fBgreenfn/\fP].
.TP 20
\fBdatadir=\fP
Directory to store data file storage. Requires about \fB6 Nobj\fP words
(normally 4 bytes/word) times the number of snapshots (\fBipout/ipstop + 1\fP)
By default it is placed inside the working run directory (see \fBdir=\fP)
[\fBdata/\fP].
.SH EXAMPLES
See \fIprun(1NEMO)\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
prun(1NEMO), rvc(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
~/usr/couchman/adap
.SH AUTHOR
Hugh Couchman (fortran), Peter Teuben (C)
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
xx-xxx-xx	Fortran version \fBprun\fP       	HMPC
7-may-94	V1.0 NEMO wrapper written        	PJT
16-may-95	V1.1 new version from Couchman   	PJT
.fi
