.TH PVTRACE 1NEMO "6 May 2001"
.SH NAME
pvtrace \- PV diagram envelope tracing 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpvtrace\fP in=image [parameter=value] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpvtrace\fP tries to recover the rotation curve from a single 
position-velocity (PV) diagram, by tracing the outer edges of
the signal that, after correction for a velocity dispersion
factor, is the material with the maximum amount of tangential
motion.
This is particularly appropriate for high-inclination 
galaxies, where significant amounts of gas is observed below
the rotation speed, due to line-of-sight integrations and simple
moments in velocity or gaussian fits fail to recover the appropriate
rotation speed.
.PP
The rotation velocity, V, is determined from a terminal velocity V_t
in the usual way:
.nf
	V = (V_t - V_sys)/sin(i) - sigma
.fi
but corrected for a dispersion factor sigma.
The terminal velocity is defined by the velocity at which the intensity
becomes equal to
.nf
	I_t = sqrt( (eta*I_max)^2 + (I_lc)^2 )
.fi
where I_max is the maximum intensity in the map, and I_lc the lowest counter
(usually 3 times the noise in the PV diagram). Both eta and I_lc can be
set via parameters to the program. Typical values for eta = 0.2 - 0.5.
.PP
In addition, this program will also perform the usual peak fit,
gaussian fit, and simple first moment analysis. See OUTPUT below for
the output format. For
lower inclinations, the envelope tracing method should give
simular results to the other methods.
.PP
MET = Modified Envelope Tracing method  (Gentile et al., see below)
.PP
WAMET = WArped Modified Envelope-Tracing method

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input image file - must be an PV \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP with position
along the 1st axis, and velocity along the 2nd. Units are not
important.
.TP
\fBeta=\fP
[0..1] weight factor for I_max adding to I_lc. [Default: 0.2]
.TP
\fBilc=\fP
Lowest Contour value. Normally taken as something like 3 times the noise level. 
[Default: 0]
.TP
\fBsign=-1|1\fP
Designates rotation of the galaxy. This is only important for tracing the 'right'
part of the PV diagram. sign=1 is meant for PV diagrams where the approaching
side is for positive positions. By using the "wrong" value of sign you can
find out something about the radial extent of the tracer, as for large
radii this would cause small values of dV/dR. For a known rotation curve
using sign=1 one could determine the radial extent from sign=-1.
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBsigma=\fP
Velocity dispersion correction factor. This includes both the observational
resolution as well as the velocity dispersion of the tracer component that is
being observed. [Default: 0]
.TP
\fBclip=\fP
Clipping values. If value(s) given, signal will be clipped as follows:
if one value given, clipping occurs between -clip and clip. If two numbers
given, clipping occurs between clip(1) and clip(2). Default: None
.TP
\fBvsys=\fP
Systemic velocity of the galaxy.
Since the velocity axis (assumed to be the 2nd or Y-axis), this number
is simply subtraced from each velocity determination. [Default: 0]
.TP
\fBinc=\fP
Inclination of the galaxy. Each rotation speed is corrected by sin(inc).
[Default: 90]
.TP
\fBcenter=\fP
Center of the galaxy along the Position axis. 
[Default: 0]
.SH OUTPUT
Output of the program will be an ASCII table, with various derived velocities
as function of position along the P axis in the PV-diagram. The following
columns are returned:
.PP
.nf
.ta +0.5i
1	position from the P-axis of the PV diagram
2	envelope tracing (corrected with vsys, sini, and sigma)
3	first moment (sum(I*v)/sum(I))  (corrected with vsys, sini)
4	velocity at peak of signal
5	velocity at peak of parabolic fit of 3 points at peak signal
.fi
.SH CAVEATS
Position axis must be carefully created such that the galaxy center is at P=0,
whereas for velocity it can be corrected with VSYS=.
.SH SEE ALSO
rotcur(1NEMO), ccdvel(1NEMO), snapgrid(1NEMO), ccdmom(1NEMO)
.PP
.nf
Sancisi & Allen 1979
Sofue, Y. 1996 ApJ 458, 120
Sofue et al 1997 PASJ 49, 17
Sofue et al 523, 136
Gentile et al. 2004MNRAS.351..903G (MET/WAMET method)
.fi
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
src/image/rotcur	sources
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
5-May-01	V1.0 Created	PJT
6-may-01	V1.1 clip=, interpolated to find trace  	PJT
.fi
