.TH QUADCODE 1NEMO "6 May 1992"
.SH NAME
quadcode \- global quadrupole-order N-body code integrator
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBquadcode\fP \fBin=\fP\fIsnapshot\fP [\fIparameter\fP=\fIvalue\fP] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIquadcode\fP is an equal-timestep implementation of an
N-body code where the forces and potential are computed
from a potential expansion in spherical harmonics
(S. White, \fIAp.J.\fP \fB274\fP, 53 (1983), who dubbed
it multipole expansion). See also a followup in
Bontekoe & van Albada (MNRAS 224, 349 (1987)) and a rebuttal
in Zaritsky & White (MNRAS 235, 289 (1988).
See also Hernquist, L. & Barnes, J. \fIAp.J.\fP \fB349\fP, 562 (1990)
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized; they may be given in any order.
.TP 24
\fBin\fP=\fIin-file\fP
Snapshot with initial conditions. No default.
.TP
\fBout\fP=\fIout-file\fP
Output file, will be in standard \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format.
No default.
.TP
\fBquad\fP=\fIquad_table\fP
Output file which will contain the quaddrupole-order field
tables. Default: not used.
.TP
\fBsave\fP=\fIstate-file\fP
If given, the system state will be saved in \fIstate-file\fP after each
timestep. Default: not used.
.TP
\fBeps_r\fP=\fIrad_soft-length\fP
Force softening parameter in radial direction.
Default is \fB0.05\fP.
.TP
\fBeps_t\fP=\fItheta_soft-length\fP
Force softening parameter in angular directions.
Default is \fB0.07\fP.
.TP
\fBfreq\fP=\fIinteg-freq\fP
Inverse time-step, to be used with a leap-frog integrator.
Default is \fB64.0\fP (64 steps per unit time).
.TP
\fBmode\fP=\fIintegration-mode\fP
Mode of integration. 1 = Runge Kutta, 2 = PC,
3 = PC1. [Default: \fB3\fP].
.TP
\fBtstop\fP=\fIstop-time\fP
Time to stop integration in N-body model units.
Default is \fB2.0\fP.
.TP
\fBfreqout\fP=\fIout-freq\fP
Frequency of major N-body data and quadrupole field
table outputs. (\fBout=\fP and \fBquad=\fP)
Default is \fB4.0\fP (4 frames per unit time).
.TP
\fBminor_freqout\fP=\fIout-freq\fP
Frequency of minor diagnostic outputs.
If this frequency is not a simple fraction of \fBfreq\fP (see above),
the program can waiste significant amounts of time.
Default is \fB32.0\fP (32 diagnostic measurements per unit time).
.TP
\fBoptions\fP=\fIoption-string\fP
Miscellaneous control options, specified as a comma-separated list
of keywords.
Currently recognized keywords are:
\fBreset_time\fP: when reading initial data, set \fItnow\fP to zero;
\fBmass\fP, \fBphi\fP, \fBacc\fP: output mass, potential,
acceleration data with major data outputs. The phase space coordinates
are always output.  
.\" It also seems that the reset_time and new_tout options have not been implemented yet.
The default is blank, meaning only phase space coordinates are
output. No additional information is output.
.SH LIMITATIONS
The code has a hardcoded maximum number of particles, through the
macro \fBMBODY\fP. (currently 4096). If more are needed, it needs
to be recompiled, for example:
.nf
    % make quadcode quadforce quadinter MBODY=16384
.fi
(Note that all \fIquad*\fP programs need to (should)
be recompiled if the maximum allowed number of bodies will
be changed.
.SH SEE ALSO
quadforce(1NEMO), quadinter(1NEMO), CSG(1NEMO), octcode(1NEMO) 
.SH BUGS
When a \fBrestart\fP is specified, values must be given for \fBALL\fP
legal parameters which do not take default values.
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
src/nbody/evolve/multicode/	exported source code
usr/josh/nbody/multicode/	Josh' original source code
.fi
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
4-mar-89	V1.2 some formal NEMO version	JEB
12-nov-91	V1.3 new NEMO V2. location in $NEMO/src tree	PJT
6-may-92	document improved	PJT
.fi
