.TH RADPROF 1NEMO "27 May 2004"
.SH NAME
radprof \- tabulate or display radial profiles of an N-body snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBradprof in=\fPsnapshot [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIradprof\fP computes spherically averaged density
(and some derived quantities) of 
an N-body realization.  Although it can plot, it
is often more useful to store the data in a table (\fBtab=t\fP)
and use other programs to plot.
One can optionally
plot the density, cumulative mass or rotational velocity
as a function of radius. 
.PP
Using table output (\fBtab=t\fP) the intrinsic cumulative mass profile
is transformed to a spatial and surface density, using 3D-angle averaging
(hence assuming a spherical system, \fIsnapscale(1NEMO)\fP has to be used 
first if the averaging is to be done on triaxial shells). 
The density at radius of radius-sorted star \fIi\fP (i=0..NBODY-1) is given by:
.nf

                sum_{i-k}^{i+k} M(j)  -  0.5*(M(i-k)+M(i+k))
    rho(i) = -----------------------------------------------
                    4/3 * PI * ( r(i+k)^3 - r(i-k)^3 )
.fi

where M(i) is the mass of star \fIi\fP). 
This equation is only valid for i=k...NBODY-1-k, the
two edge stars have different densities defined. See source code for details.
For points within 'k' stars (see also \fBkmax=\fP below)
of the minimum and maximum radius,
fewer stars will be used on one side of the interval, but the
formulae used is still the same.
.PP
The table will contain 7 columns: 
(1) radius, (2) density, (3) circular velocity (assuming centrifugal
balance), (4) cumulative mass, (5) projected surface density, (6) radius
to the power 0.25 and (7) -2.5*log(surface density). 
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBcenter=\fIx,y,z\fP
The center \fI(x,y,z)\fP  from which the radial profile will be constructed
[default: 0,0,0].
.TP
\fBmode=\fIname\fP
Choice of variable against which the radial distribution
is plotted. Options are: \fImass\fP, which plots the cumulative mass,
\fIdensity\fP, which plots the stellar density and \fIrotcur\fP,
which plots the rotation curve for centrifugally bound orbits.
.TP
\fBrmax=\fIrmax\fP
This is a radial cutoff in the plot. [default: program selects 
\fIrmax\fP to be the particle with maximum radius from the center 
(\fIx,y,z\fP)]
.TP
\fBdmax=\fIdmax\fP
Upper cutoff of the density [default: program selects the maximum
found density to fit on the plot].
.TP
\fBmmax=\fImmax\fP
Upper cutoff of the cumulative mass plot [default: 1.0].
.TP
\fBvmax=\fIvmax\fP
Upper cutoff of the rotation curve plot [default: program selects
the maximum found rotation curve to fit on the plot].
.TP
\fBkmax=\fP\fIk_max\fP
Number of nearest neighbors in radius on either side used 
determine the density.  This acts like a hanning type smoothing
constant. Note this means that each density point
used \fB2 kmax + 1\fP points from the snapshot.
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBtab=\fIt|f\fP
Output as table? When true no plotting will be done,
only the table is produced on standard output:
(1) radius,
(2) density,
(3) circular velocity,
(4) cumulative mass,
(5) projected surface density,
(6) radius to the power
(7) 0.25 and -2.5*log(surface density). [default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
Optional text for plot header. [no header].
.SH BUGS
.nf
Tables (\fBtab=t\fP): the density is crummy.
Plot: no logarithmic scaling can be done.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapdens(1NEMO), hackdens(1NEMO), tabplot(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~src/nbody/reduc	radprof.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +2.0i +2.0i
18-Mar-87	document created        	PJT
 8-Apr-87	V1.0 coding             	PJT
21-Apr-87	V1.1 rotcur added       	PJT
 1-jun-88	V2.0 new filestruct + table	PJT
28-Mar-89	V2.0c bug remarks in man page	PJT
12-feb-92       V2.1a Nemo V2.x         	PJT
25-jul-97	V3.0 added kmax= and changed density computation	PJT
20-jun-02	V3.1 able to read PhaseSpace as well as Pos/Vel data	PJT
.fi
