.TH ROTCURVES 1NEMO "25 June 2019"
.SH NAME
rotcurves \- rotation curve of a composite potential
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrotcurves name1=\fIpotential\fP [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIrotcurves\fP  computes the rotation curve of a composite mass model.
Each component must be supplied in the form of a potential (see
\fIpotential(5NEMO)\fP) from which the forces determine a rotation
curves assuming centrifugal balance.
Optionally a Lindblad diagram can be selected
for viewing using \fBmode=omega\fP, and the location of Lindblad 
resonances is determined. A choice is also
given between a plot and a table for further processing.
An experimental LV option can be used for radial velocity table along the line
of sight distance.
.PP
In case a true rotation curve is requested (\fBmode=velocity\fP) the table
contains \fIr, v, v1, v2, ...\fP, whereas the Lindblad option
with \fBmode=omega\fP tabulates \fIr, v, omega, kappa, omega+kappa/2,
omega-kappa/2\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized:
.TP 24
\fBname1=\fIpotname\fP
Name of first potential, in standard \fIpotential(5EMO)\fP format.
No default allowed.
.TP
\fBpars1=\fIpotpars\fP
Parameters for first potential. Defaults as defined by the potential itself.
.TP
\fBfile1=\fIpotfile\fP
Optional file for first potential. Defaults as defined by the 
potential itself.
.TP
<etc> for \fBname2, name3, name4\fP.
.br
NOTE that because of the specific code implementation, you cannot re-use the same potential,
since they share their static code data.
.TP
\fBradii=\fIr1,r2,...\fP
Radii where to compute the rotation curve.
[default: \fB0:2:0.1\fP].
.TP
\fBaxis=x|y|z\fP
Choice of axis to compute rotation curve along. The rotation curve is
defined from circular orbits balancing the local gravitational force.
[default: \fBx\fP].
.TP
\fBmode=\fIoption\fP
Mode can be \fBvelocity\fP or \fBomega\fP, the former selecting the
true rotation curve, the latter a Lindblad diagram. In a Lindblad diagram
only the total curve is given, not the individual components. If a finite
pattern speed is given, it also computes the lindblad resonances, but make
sure the OLR is included, else the program will abort.
[default: \fBvelocity\fP].
.TP
\fBn=\fP
For angular velocity diagrams (\fBmode=omega\fP) this gives the Lindblad
resonance to be computed. By default the classical \fBn=2\fP is used,
from which the ILR and OLR can be derived. For \fBn=4\fP the two UHR
can be determined etc.
[Default: \fB2\fP]
.TP
\fBr0l=\fIr0,l,radii\fP
Solar radius, galactic longitude and a list of radii (distances 
along the line of sight) to calculate radial velocity for.
\fI Experimental, only in \fBlv\fP mode\fP
.TP
\fBplot=t|f\fP
Select viewing in form of a plot. [Default: \fBt\fP]
.TP
\fBtab=t|f\fP
Select viewing in form of a table. [Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
\fBformat=\fP
\fIprintf(3)\fP style format specification for each of the columns in tabular output.
[Default: \fB%g\fP]
.TP
\fBxrange=\fIxmin,xmax|xmin\fP
Range in plot for X-axis, always radius. Two (min and max), one (min)
or zero (autoscaling) values can be given.
[default: autoscaling]
.TP
\fByrange=\fIymin,ymax|ymin\fP
Range in plot for Y-axis, either velocity or omega. See also \fBxrange=\fP.
[default: autoscaling]
.TP
\fBheadline=\fIplotlabel_text\fP
Any optional text, plotted at the top of the plot for identification
purposes. The default is a list of \fInameX(parsX)...\fP.
.TP
\fBin=\fItable_file\fP
If supplied, it should be a table (a file) 
consisting of velocities (colum 2) vs. radius (column 1)
to be checking with the composite model supplied earlier. Some kind
of statistics will be calculated from which the goodness of fit can
be derived. [default: not used].
.TP
\fBcols=\fIrcol,vcol,drcol,dvcol\fP
The columns must be provided here in which columns the radius, velocity,
error in radius and error in velocity can be found. The error columns
are optional, and if provided error bars will be plotted on top of the data.
A 0 can be used if an column is not present in the data, although radius
and velocity must always be present.
[Default: \fB1,2\fP].
.SH "SEE ALSO"
potrot(1NEMO), potlist(1NEMO), runbulgerot(1NEMO), potential(5NEMO), perorb(1NEMO), ROTMAS(1GIPSY)
.PP
.nf
galfit: http://users.ociw.edu/peng/work/galfit/galfit.html
galphot: http://www.astro-wise.org/portal/howtos/man_howto_galphot/man_howto_galphot.shtml
.fi
.SH BUGS
Sometimes Lindblad diagrams require more resolution in radius near the 
center, so \fBradii=0.0001,0.001,0.01,0.02:1:0.02\fP may do a better job
than \fBradii=0:1:0.02\fP.
.PP
Although not really a bug, but a limitation, this
program assumes symmetric potentials, and that circular orbits exist in
the selected plane. For non-axisymmetric potentials the obtained rotation
curve is bogus, and one has to resort to a periodic orbit searching
program such as \fIperorb(1NEMO)\fP. You can also try and average the
results along the X and Y axes, and average.
.PP
Rotating potentials are not implemented, except for the search for
Lindblad resonances in \fBmode=omega\fP.
.PP
Potentials (name1,2,....) cannot be re-used. Since \fIloadobj(3NEMO)\fP is used
to load the potentials, their static code data is shared. One possible solution
would be to make a physical copy of the .so file from $NEMOOBJ/potential
in the local directory with different names
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/orbit/potential   rotcurves.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
xx-oct-90       V1.0 derived from potlist               PJT
28-oct-90       V1.1 spline fit -> lindblad option      PJT
8-nov-90        V1.2 in= table implemented              PJT
16-nov-90	V1.3 cols= to select optional error colums	PJT
12-nov-93	V1.4 added n=	PJT
8-apr-97	V1.6 search for lindblad resonances if omega>0	PJT 
7-jul-02	V1.7 added format=				PJT
.fi
