.TH RSF 1NEMO "16 December 1990"
.ds e =\h'-0.0m'
.SH NAME
rsf \- read a structured file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrsf in\*e\fPfile \fBout\*e\fPfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIrsf\fP reads the ascii representation of a structured binary file 
(ASF) as
generated, for example, by \fItsf\fP(1NEMO), and writes a binary version.
.PP
In this fashion tsf/rsf can be used to port data between machines of a
totally different binary data type (e.g. Cray's, Sun's, Convex, DECs, IBMs)
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBin\*e\fP\fIfile\fP
Input data is read from \fIfile\fP, which must be an ascii file.
.TP 24
\fBout\*e\fP\fIfile\fP
Output data is written to \fIfile\fP in binary form.
.SH SEE ALSO
tsf(1NEMO), csf(1NEMO), filestruct(3NEMO).
.SH DEBUG
\fBdebug=2\fP reports values of \fIMaxTagLen\fP and \fIMaxVecDim\fP
as defined in "\fBfilestruct.h\fP".
For \fIMaxSetLen\fP see \fItsf(1NEMO)\fP.
.SH BUGS
\fIrsf\fP does not recognize items which have been truncated by \fItsf\fP
(using the \fBmaxlines=\fP keyword).
If \fItsf\fP and \fIrsf\fP are used together, set \fBmaxlines\fP to a
value large enough to print all the data, or use
\fBalllines=t\fP.
.PP
Although \fIrsf\fP can now read multiline strings, it
can complain on long strings that go accross a line if
the line break occured just before a white space in the string.
This can be solved by running 
\fItsf\fP with a different or 
long enough linelength (using the \fBmargin=\fP keyword).
.SH BUGS
\fBrsf\fP does not recognize decimal numbers, it assumes 
they are always octal, and does not pay attention to a leading
0 to distinguish. Thereforce, since \fItsf(1NEMO)\fP now
defaults decimal integers by default, it has to be forced
to output octal if \fBrsf\fP is part of the pipe to
transfer information, e.g.:
.nf
    % mkplummer - 3 | tsf - | grep Coord
	int CoordSystem 66306 \fB(good)\fP

    % mkplummer - 3 | tsf - octal=t | grep Coord
	int CoordSystem 0201402 \fB(good)\fP

    % mkplummer - 3 | tsf - | rsf - - | tsf - | grep Coord
	int CoordSystem 27846 \fB(bad)\fP

    % mkplummer - 3 | tsf - octal=t | rsf - - | tsf - | grep Coord
	int CoordSystem 66306 \fB(good)\fP
	
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
Joshua E. Barnes, Panayotis Skordos.
.SH HISTORY
.ta +1i +4i
.nf
xx-jun-87	V1.0 first implementation	PS
xx-apr-88	V2.0 new filestruct package	JB
12-sep-90	V2.1 helpvec	PJT
9-dec-90	V2.2 multiline string bug removed	PJT
14-jun-2002	added comment on new tsf behavior for integer output	PJT
.fi
