.TH RUNBODY4 1NEMO "13 March 2006"
.SH NAME
runbody4 \- Hermite N-body code with optional stellar evolution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBrunbody4\fP [parameter=value]
\fBnbody4  \fP\fI < nbody4.in\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrunbody4\fP is a frontend to Aarseth' NBODY4 program.
It creates a run directory, prepares
a parameter input file, and optionally input snapshot data, and runs
the NBODY4 program. This can be useful if you need to run a lot of
simulations unattended.
.PP
Output snapshots are by default not created, and must be  turned on
with a options flag (see \fBkz=\fP below). All of the input
parameter names are the same as their counterpart in
\fBnbody4\fP.
.PP
Note that this front-end is not designed to run every possible way
in which NBODY4 can be run, but it most useful to run initial conditions
from a snapshot file.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given: 
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input file (optional, see \fBnbody=\fP to generate your own input 
data on the fly). If input data are given, it forces KZ(4)=2 (see 
below).  
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBoutdir=\fP
Output run directory. This directory should not exist, although
can be overriden with NEMO's standard \fBerror=\fP system keyword.
No default.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP
Total particle number. The maximum value (NMAX) is compiled into
the NBODY4 program. Note that even if \fIin=\fP is supplied, this
parameter is needed.
No default.
.TP
\fBnfix=\fP
Output frequency of data save or binaries; KZ(3 & 6)
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBnrand=\fP
Random number sequence skip.
[Default: 0]
.TP
\fBnrun=\fP
Run identification index.
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBeta=\fP
Time-step parameter for force polynomials.
[Default: 0.02]
.TP
\fBdeltat=\fP
Output time interval in units of the crossing.
[Default: 0.25]
.TP
\fBtcrit=\fP
Termination time in units of the crossing time.
[Default: 5]
.TP
\fBqe=\fP
Energy tolerance (restart if DE/E > 5*QE & KZ(2) > 1)
[Default: 2e-5]
.TP
\fBeps=\fP
Potential softening parameter     
[Default: 0.01]
.TP
\fBkz=\fP
Non-zero options for alternative paths (see below) 
[Default: 1,2,0::4,1::2,0::2,1]
.nf
.ta +0.5i
1	COMMON save on unit 1 at end of run (=2: every 100*NMAX steps).
2	COMMON save on unit 2 at output (=1); restart if DE/E > 5*QE (=2).
3	Basic data on unit 3 at output (freq. NFIX; >1: cluster + tail).
4 #	Binary diagnostics on unit 4 (# threshold levels = KZ(4) < 10).
5	Initial conditions (#22 =0; =0: uniform & isotropic sphere;
      	      =1: Plummer; =2: two Plummer models in orbit, extra input;
      	      =3: massive perturber and planetesimal disk, extra input).
      	      =4: massive initial binary, extra input; output on unit 35).
6	Output of significant & regularized binaries (=1, 2, 3 & 4).
7	Lagrangian radii (>0: RSCALE; =2, 3, 4: output units 6, 7, 12;
      	      >=5: density & rms velocity at given radii on unit 26 & 27;
              >=5: average mass at given radii on unit 36 every DELTAT;
      	       =6: Lagrangian radii for two mass groups on unit 31 & 32.
8	Primordial binaries (=1 & >=3; >0: BINOUT; >2: BINDAT; >3: HIDAT).
9	Individual bodies printed at output time (MIN(5**KZ9,NTOT)).
10	Diagnostic KS output (>0: begin; >1: end; >=3: each step).
11 #	Synchronization of circular orbits (suppressed).
12	Disk shocks (=1: standard model) or interstellar clouds (< 0).
13	Scaling of time (1: variable by t_cr; 2: variable by t_r;
      	       -1: constant scaling to t_r; -2: constant scaling to t_c).
14	External force (=1: linearized; -1: cutoff; =2: point-mass galaxy;
      	   =3: point-mass + disk + logarithmic halo in any combination).
15	Triple, quad, chain (#30 > 0) or merger search (>1: full output).
16	Updating of regularization parameters (RMIN, DTMIN & ECLOSE).
17	Modification of ETA (>=1) & ETAU (>1) by tolerance QE.
18	Hierarchical systems (=1: diagnostics; =2: primordial; =3: both).
19	Stellar evolution and mass loss (=1: old supernova scheme;
      	            =3: Eggleton, Tout & Hurley; >4: Chernoff--Weinberg).
20	Initial mass function (=0,1: Salpeter; >1: various, see IMF).
21	Extra output (>0: model, etc; >1: CENTRE; >2: MTRACE; >3: GLOBAL).
22	Initial conditions on unit 10 (=1: output; =2,3(unscaled): input).
23	Escaper removal (>1: diagnostics in file ESC; =2: angles unit #6;
      	                 >1: tidal tails output if #14 = 3).
24	Initial conditions for subsystem (routine SCALE; KZ(24) = #).
25 #	Partial reflection of KS binary orbit (GAMMA < GMIN; suppressed).
25	HR diagnostics of evolving stars (output of B & S on #82 & 83).
26	Slow-down of two-body motion (=1: KS binary; =2: chain binary).
27	Two-body interactions (-2: RADIUS = 0; -1: collision detection;
      	                       =1: sequential circ; > 0: collision).
28	(not used).
29 #	Boundary reflection for hot system (suppressed).
30	Chain regularization (=1: basic; >1: main output; >2: each step).
31	Centre of mass correction after energy check.
32	Increase of output intervals (based on single particle energy).
33	Block-step diagnostics at main output (=2: active pipes).
34 #	Roche lobe overflow (suppressed).
35	Time offset (global time from TTOT = TIME + DTOFF; offset = 100).
36	Step reduction for hierarchical systems (not recommended).
37	Step reduction for encounters with high-velocity particles.
38 #	Multiple use of GRAPE-6 (sleep 1 sec after each timer check).
39	Neighbour list (=-1: on host; =0: full list or closest on GRAPE).
40	(not used).

#	currently surpressed
.fi
.TP
\fBxtpar1=\fP
Mass of external Plummer model (KZ(15) = 1;
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBxtpar2=\fP
Length scale for Plummer model (KZ(15) = 1)
[Default: 2]
.TP
\fBzmgas=\fP
Mass scale for logarithmic potential (KZ(15) = 2)
.TP
\fBrgas=\fP
Length scale for logarithmic potential (KZ(15) = 2)
.TP
\fBalphas=\fP
Power-law index for initial mass function (routine DATA)
[Default: 2.3]
.TP
\fBbody1=\fP
Maximum particle mass before scaling   
[Default: 5.0]
.TP
\fBbodyn=\fP
Minimum particle mass before scaling   
[Default: 1.0]
.TP
\fBq=\fP
Virial ratio (q=0.5 for virial equilibrium)  
[Default: 0]
.TP
\fBvxrot=\fP
XY-velocity scaling factor (> 0 for solid-body rotation)
[Default: 0]
.TP
\fBvzrot=\fP
Z-velocity scaling factor (not used if VXROT =
[Default: 0]
.TP
\fBrbar=\fP
Virial radius in pc (for scaling to physical
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBzmbar=\fP
Mean mass in solar units   
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBxcm=\fP
Displacement for subsystem (routine SCALE; KZ(17)) 
.TP
\fBecc=\fP
Eccentricity of relative motion for subsystem (ECC =< 1)
.TP
\fBKZ#=\fP
This is an indexed keyword,and the upper case version of the kz= array keyword. This
way the user can override single elements of the kz= vector, and using a default
for the long kz= vector. For example "kz=@kz.def KZ22=2 KZ5=2". See \fIgetparam(3NEMO)\fP
for a description of indexed keywords.  No default.
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBnbody4\fP can also be used to generate snapshots. Here is an example
to create a 1024 body homogeneous sphere in the directory
run1 and a plummer sphere in run2.
.nf
    % runbody4 "" run1 1024 tcrit=0 KZ5=0 KZ22=1
    % u3tos run1/OUT3 run1/run1.snap mode=4

    % runbody4 "" run2 1024 tcrit=0 KZ5=1 KZ22=1
    % u3tos run2/OUT3 run2/run2.snap mode=4

.fi
.PP
You can also supply existing NEMO snapshots as initial conditions
.nf
    % runbody4 run2/run2.snap run3 tcrit=1
.fi
.SH BUGS
Scaling can cause output to become out of bounds.
.PP
It appears to just create small systems, like nbody=10 tcrit=0, will hang the program.
.SH SEE ALSO
nbody4(1NEMO), nbody2(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), u3tos(1NEMO), stou4(1NEMO), nbody4(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
$NEMO/src/nbody/evolve/aarseth/tools	code
$outdir/fort.1                       	restart dump (compile time dep. size)
$outdir/fort.2                         	restart dump (compile time dep. size)
$outdir/fort.4                         	restart dump (compile time dep. size)
$outdir/fort.7                         	warning on nblist
$outdir/fort.8                         	T=
$outdir/fort.12				lagrangian radii?
$outdir/fort.16				ksrect
$outdir/fort.26				density
$outdir/fort.27				velocity
$outdir/fort.29				hivel
$outdir/fort.40				?
$outdir/fort.82				?
$outdir/fort.83				list of (several) times the N particles with something
$outdir/fort.88				T,N,...
$outdir/ESC				List of times and escapers with their properties

$outdir/OUT3                        	particle dump (see \fIu3tos(1NEMO)\fP)
HIDAT
OUT9
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
28-feb-2006	V0.1 Created in Cambridge	PJT
10-mar-2006	V0.4 for a more formal version in NEMO, include Brut4's nbody4 version	PJT
13-mar-2006	V0.5 minor updated via Sverre (fixing small N initialization)	PJT/SJA
.fi
