.TH RUNBODY2 1NEMO "17 March 2006"
.SH NAME
runbody2 \- Ahmad-Cohen N-body code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBrunbody2\fP [parameter=value]
\fBnbody2  \fP\fI < nbody2.in\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrunbody2\fP is a frontend to the NBODY2 fortran program.
It  (optionally)
creates a run directory, prepares
a parameter input file, and optionally input snapshot data, and runs
the NBODY2 program.
.PP
Output snapshots are by default not created, and must be  turned on
with a options flag (see \fBkz=\fP below). All of the input
parameter names are the same as their counterpart in
\fBnbody2\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input file (optional, see \fBnbody=\fP to generate your own input 
data on the fly). If input data are given, it forces KZ(4)=2 (see 
below).  Can also be a directory, in which case the input file for
a restart run is assumed to be the default (fort.4)  in native 
format.
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBoutdir=\fP
Output run directory. This directory should not exist, although
can be overriden with NEMO's standard \fBerror=\fP system keyword.
No default.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP
Total particle number. The maximum value (NMAX) is compiled into
the NBODY2 program. Note that even if \fIin=\fP is supplied, this
parameter is needed.
No default.
.TP
\fBnfix=\fP
Output frequency of data save or binaries; KZ(3 & 6)
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBnrand=\fP
Random number sequence skip.
[Default: 0]
.TP
\fBnnbmax=\fP
Maximum number of neighbours. Should be less then LMAX, which  is
compiled into the NBODY2 program.
[Default: 40]
.TP
\fBnrun=\fP
Run identification index.
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBetai=\fP
Time-step parameter for irregular force polynomial.
[Default: 0.02]
.TP
\fBetar=\fP
Time-step parameter for regular force polynomial.
[Default: 0.04]
.TP
\fBrs0=\fP
Initial radius of neighbour sphere.
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBdeltat=\fP
Output time interval in units of the crossing.
[Default: 0.25]
.TP
\fBtcrit=\fP
Termination time in units of the crossing time.
[Default: 5]
.TP
\fBqe=\fP
Energy tolerance (restart if DE/E > 5*QE & KZ(2) > 1)
[Default: 2e-5]
.TP
\fBeps=\fP
Potential softening parameter     
[Default: 0.01]
.TP
\fBkz=\fP
Non-zero options for alternative paths (see below) 
[Default: 1,2,0::4,1::2,0::2,1]
.nf
.ta +0.5i
 1  	COMMON save on unit 1 at end of run (=2: every 100*NMAX steps) [1]
 2  	COMMON save on unit 2 at output (=1); restart if DE/E > 5*QE (=2) [2]
 3  	Basic data written to unit 3 at output time (frequency NFIX) [0]
 4 	Initial conditions on unit 4 (=1: output; =2: input) [0]
 5  	Initial conditions (=0: uniform & isotropic; =1: Plummer  model) [0]
 6  	Output of significant binaries (=2: frequency NFIX) [0]
 7  	Lagrangian radii (=1: unit 6; =2: unit 7; =3: both types) [1]
 8  	Core radius & density centre (N > 20 only) [1]
 9  	Individual bodies printed at output time (MIN(5**KZ(9),N)) [0]
 10  	No unique density centre (skips velocity modification of RS(I)) [0]
 11  	Modification of ETAI & ETAR by tolerance QE [1]
 12  	Inelastic mergers (>1: diagnostic output) [0]
 13  	Escaper removal (R > 2*RTIDE; RTIDE = 10*RSCALE) [0]
 14  	Skip full predictor loop if NNB > KZ(14) = <NNB> & KZ(14) > [0]
 15  	External potential (=1: Plummer model; =2: logarithmic potential) [0]
 16  	No scaling of initial conditions [0]
 17  	Generation of two subsystems (merger experiment) [0]
 18  	Adjustment of coordinates & velocities to c.m. condition [0]
 19  	Not used at present [0]
 20  	Not used at present [0]
.fi
.TP
\fBxtpar1=\fP
Mass of external Plummer model (KZ(15) = 1;
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBxtpar2=\fP
Length scale for Plummer model (KZ(15) = 1)
[Default: 2]
.TP
\fBzmgas=\fP
Mass scale for logarithmic potential (KZ(15) = 2)
.TP
\fBrgas=\fP
Length scale for logarithmic potential (KZ(15) = 2)
.TP
\fBalphas=\fP
Power-law index for initial mass function (routine DATA)
[Default: 2.3]
.TP
\fBbody1=\fP
Maximum particle mass before scaling   
[Default: 5.0]
.TP
\fBbodyn=\fP
Minimum particle mass before scaling   
[Default: 1.0]
.TP
\fBq=\fP
Virial ratio (q=0.5 for virial equilibrium)  
[Default: 0]
.TP
\fBvxrot=\fP
XY-velocity scaling factor (> 0 for solid-body rotation)
[Default: 0]
.TP
\fBvzrot=\fP
Z-velocity scaling factor (not used if VXROT =
[Default: 0]
.TP
\fBrbar=\fP
Virial radius in pc (for scaling to physical
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBzmbar=\fP
Mean mass in solar units   
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBxcm=\fP
Displacement for subsystem (routine SCALE; KZ(17)) 
.TP
\fBecc=\fP
Eccentricity of relative motion for subsystem (ECC =< 1)
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBnbody2\fP can also be used to generate snapshots. Here is an example
to create a 1024 body homogeneous sphere in the directory
run1 and a plummer sphere in run2.
.nf
    runbody2 "" run1 1024 tcrit=0 kz=0,0,1
    u3tos run1/OUT3 run1/run1.snap
    runbody2 "" run2 1024 tcrit=0 kz=0,0,1,0,1
    u3tos run2/OUT3 run2/run2.snap
.fi
.PP
You can also supply existing NEMO snapshots as initial conditions
.nf
    runbody2 run4.snap run4 tcrit=0 kz=0,0,1,2
        (this option doesn't work yet)
.fi
.SH BUGS
Scaling can cause output to become out of bounds.
.SH SEE ALSO
nbody2(1NEMO), nbody0(1NEMO), runbody1(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), u3tos(1NEMO), stou4(1NEMO)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
$NEMO/src/nbody/evolve/aarseth/tools	code
$outdir/fort.1                       	restart dump (compile time dep. size)
$outdir/fort.2                         	restart dump (compile time dep. size)
$outdir/fort.4                         	restart dump (compile time dep. size)
$outdir/OUT3                        	particle dump (see \fIu3tos(1NEMO)\fP)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
15-jun-97	V1.0 Created	PJT
15-jul-97	V1.2 out= now outdir=, nbody= now required value	PJT
5-mar-98	readying for new release	PJT
17-mar-06	V1.4 using fullname for in=	PJT
.fi
