.TH RUNCMHOG 1NEMO "21 July 2003"
.SH NAME
runcmhog \- preprocess a CMHOG namelist and run program in a new directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBruncmhog\fP \fI[-options]\fP \fIrun_directory\fP \fI[[namelist/][key=val]]\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBruncmhog\fP is a preprocessor to run (a series of) CMHOG programs.
It expects the 'cmhogin' input file to be present in the local
directory, uses that, but any variables can be overridden via
the commandline. 
The first argument must be a (non-existent) directory name, in
which a new 'cmhogin' file will be written, and cmhog will be 
run. The 'cmhog' program is allowed to be in the unix PATH
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized, they must appear before
the \fIrun_directory\fP name
.TP 20
\fB-d\fP
Turn debugging on.
.TP 
\fB-h\fP
show brief options reminder/help message
.TP 
\fB-n\fP \fInamelist\fP
Optional name of the \fInamelist\fP file.
Default: \fBcmhogin\fP.
.TP
\fB-e\fP \fIexecutable\fP
Optional name of the executable name. By default the users search path will
be consulted, for relative references remember this will be run
from within the run_directory.
Default: \fBcmhog\fP.
.SH CAVEAT
Cannot add new keywords, they must already have an entry in the
\fIcmhogin\fP template file.
.PP
since run-directories are created, entries like "pgrid/pot0" contain
file references that thus have to be properly relative, or absolute.
.PP
a directory name cannot contain an equals sign
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is a shell script running a series of models from a template \fIcmhogin\fP
in the current directory.
.nf
    runcmhog run001
    runcmhog run002 aob=3.0
    runcmhog run003 aob=2.0
    runcmhog run004 aob=3.0 qm=5.5e4
    runcmhog run005 aob=3.0 qm=3.5e4
    runcmhog run101 ggen2/nbl=200

.fi
For following snippet of c-shell code shows how easy it is to
keep your CPU busy for months and months...
.nf

foreach a (1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5)
  foreach b (10 20 30 40 50)
    foreach c (1 3 10 30 100 300 1000)
      set dir=run1/$a/$b/$c
      mkdir -p $dir
      runcmhog -n cmhogin $dir a=$a  b=$b  c=$c >& $dir/cmhog.log
    end
  end
end

.fi
.SH NAMELIST
The fortran \fInamelist\fP format has many flavors, and you may wind up finding
that your fortran compiler produces a flavor this version of the program cannot
deal with. For example, a standard line reads as
.nf

 $hycon idiff=1,ifltn=1,tlim=2.0 $end
 $ggen2 nbl=37,ymin=0.1,ymax=16.0,yrat=1.15708,igrid=1,lgrid=.true. $end
 $ggen3 nbl=20,zmin=-1.5708,zmax=1.5708,igrid=1,lgrid=.true. $end

.fi
but some compilers will expect/produce a comma at the end of each line.
Also, for example in RAMSES (uses fortran90) you can see this type:
.nf

&OUTPUT_PARAMS
noutput=1
tout=0.4
/

&HYDRO_PARAMS
gamma=1.6666667
courant_factor=0.8
slope_type=2
riemann='roe'
/

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
hdfgrid(1NEMO), sdsfits(1NEMO)
.SH FILES
.nf
NEMO/src/image/hdf/cmhog      cmhog utility tools
CMHOG2                        cmhog2 code (may be out of date)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
15-Jun-96	man written	PJT
19-feb-97	implemented -e and -n flags	PJT
29-jun-02	documented some more flags	PJT
14-may-03	rundir can be in a hierarchy now	PJT
21-jul-03	fix documentation bug about namelist specification	PJT
.fi
