.TH RUNDISKFIT 1NEMO "8 August 2014"
.SH NAME
rundiskfit \- NEMO frontend to run Spekkens & Sellwood's 2012 \fIdiskfit\fP code
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrundiskfit\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrundiskfit\fP is a NEMO frontend to \fBdiskfit\fP, which supersedes
their previous \fBvelfit\fP (see \fIrunvelfitss07(1NEMO)\fP) release.
.PP
\fBdiskfit\fP implements procedures for fitting
non-axisymmetries in either kinematic or photometric data,
as first described in Spekkens & Sellwood (2007) for velocity
fields and Reese et al. (2007, SS07) for images. DiskFit supercedes
velfit 2.0 in that it implements a refined version of that code to fit kinematics,
and corresponds to the first public release of the image fitting code described in
R07. DiskFit improves upon the functionality of velfit described in SS07 and
Sellwood & Zanmar Sanches (2010) as well as that for image
fitting described in R07, by carrying out an optional seeing correction for both
kinematic and photometric fits.
.PP
Radial (m=0) flow
can be fitted by setting \fBflags(4)\fP, whereas
bisymmetric (m=2) or lobsided (m=1) flow with \fBflags(5)\fP
(see \fBflags=\fP below). The code is usually not well
converging when fitting both.
For more details and a full explanation of the parameters, 
Spekkens and Sellwood (2007ApJ...664..204S) and the Users Guide
on the DISKFIT website.
.PP
The current frontend is under development, the only reliably way to run
the examples is via the \fBinp=\fP keyword.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP
\fBinp=\fP
This is currently the only supported option. This is the input parameter 
file, as supplied to diskfit.
.TP
\fBin=\fP
input velocity field. The first 4 lines are completely ignored, each
subsequent data line must be X,Y,V,DV in 4F10.2 format. Note X is positive to the
west. Up to 50,000 points can
be read in the default compilation. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
output model field. No default.
.TP
\fBpar=\fP
output parameter file. No default.
.TP
\fBcenter=\fP\fIxc,yc\fP
center of velocity field. Note X is positive to the west  [0,0].
.TP
\fBvsys=\fP
systemic velocity [0]     
.TP
\fBpa=\fP
(kinematic) position angle of disk (E of N), the usual convention
applies where this means the receding side of the disk [0]
.TP
\fBinc=\fP
inclination angle of disk [0]   
.TP
\fBrmsism=\fP
ISM turbulence [0]     
.TP
\fBflags=\fP\fIf1,f2,f3,f4,f5,f6\fP
Siz flags which to be fitted/done: geom (inc and pa), center, vsys, radial (m=0), 
lobsides/bisymmetric (m=1,2...), error estimates.
[1,1,1,0,0,0]
.TP
\fBm=\fP
harmonic order of bar perturbation (1 or 2).
[2]
.TP
\fBseed=\fP
Random Seed [-50]     
.TP
\fBbootstrap=\fP
Number of bootstrap samples if errors (\fBflags(6)\fP set) are calculated. 
Note using bootstrap will result in a large runtime.
[200]
.TP
\fBj=\fP
correlation length, in case bootstrap is used [1.0]
.TP
\fBrcirc=\fP
Radius beyond which no non-circular rmotions fitted [50]
.TP
\fBradii=\fP\fIrmin:rmax:step\fP
Ring Radii at which velocity field components are are extracted.
.TP
\fBregrid=t|f\fP
Only used for ASCII tables, if the program should attempt to 
regrid the data in a 
Default: t.
.TP
\fBexe=\fP
name of VELFITSS07 executable. It will have to be found in the user's $PATH. Note that
although the original name of the SS07 is \fIvelfit\fP, this conflicts with
\fIvelfit(1NEMO)\fP and within NEMO we normally rename the SS07 version fo
\fIvelfitss07\fP.  [velfitss07]   
.SH EXAMPLES
Here are the 5 examples from the Users Guide:
.nf

ex 1a: rundiskfit inp=EXAMPLE/PHOT/phot_disk.inp
ex 1b: rundiskfit inp=EXAMPLE/PHOT/phot_full.inp
ex 2a: rundiskfit inp=EXAMPLE/VELS/FITS/velsf_disk.inp
ex 2b: rundiskfit inp=EXAMPLE/VELS/FITS/velsf_bi.inp
ex 3 : rundiskfit inp=EXAMPLE/VELS/TEXT/velst_err.inp

.fi

Note you have to run them from a directory where \fBEXAMPLE\fP is a subdirectory.
.SH BENCHMARK
The 5 benchmarks (1a, 1b, 2a, 2b and 3a) reporting pure user times:
.nf
.ta +2.5i +1i +1i +1i +1i +1i
CPU/speed		test1a	test1b	test2a	test2b	test3a

core2d T7300 @ 2.0 GHz	4.3	220.6	15.4	7.6	45.2 "2007 linux laptop [v1.0]"
i7/870 @ 2.93 GHz	2.1	463.7	8.6	4.8	27.9 "2010? linux desktop"
i7/3770 @ 3.50 GHz	1.7	77.6	7.3	4.1	26.5 "2012 linux desktop"
i7? mac @ x.x GHz	2.7	124.9	9.7	5.2	36.4 "2010? mac desktop"
i7-3630QM @ 2.40GHz	2.3	144.5	1.0	6.0	29.2 "2014 linux laptop [v1.1]"	
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
rotcur(1NEMO), velfit(1NEMO), runvelfitss07(1NEMO), rotcurshape(1NEMO), rundiskfit12(1NEMO)

.nf
2007ApJ...664..204S (Spekkens & Sellwood, 2007)
2007AJ....133.2846R (Reese, Williams, Sellwood, Barnes & Powell 2007)
2012MNRAS.....  (Kuzio de Naray, Arsenault, Spekkens, Sellwood, McDonald, Simon, Teuben 2012)
WEBSITE: http://www.physics.rutgers.edu/~spekkens/velfit/
WEBSITE: http://www.physics.rutgers.edu/~spekkens/diskfit/
.fi
.SH FILES
.nf
NEMO/usr/spekkens/velfit	- original SS07 code/examples (see their WEBSITE)
NEMOBIN/velfitss07	- SS07 executable (see also \fBexe=\fP)
NEMO/src/image/rotcur	- NEMO frontends
.fi
.SH CAVEATS
The parameter file (diskfit.inc) is in the local run directory, and is silently overwritten.
This will hamper running the program in parallel.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
13-sep-2012	V1.0 : frontend for diskfit V1.0  (July/Aug 2012)	PJT
7-aug-2014	V1.1 : various updates for V1.1 (May 2013)	PJT
.fi
