.TH RUNGALAXY 1NEMO "6 February 2018"
.SH NAME
rungalaxy \- run Sellwood's galaxy program
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrungalaxy\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrungalaxy\fP is a front-end to Sellwood's \fIgalaxy(1NEMO)\fP program. It currently only supports the
older V1.3 version.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input snapshot (nemo \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format).
No Default.
.TP
\fBoutdir=\fP
directory in which GALAXY will be run. Within this directory several output
files are created.
No default.
.TP
\fBscale=\fP
number of grid cells per unit length [15.0]
.TP
\fBdt=\fP
integration time step [0.05]    
.TP
\fBdtout=\fP
time between particle outputs [0.5]   
.TP
\fBdtlog=\fP
time between integral checks [0.1]   
.TP
\fBtstop=\fP
end time [1.0]     
.TP
\fBgrid=\fP
number of grid cells in (x,y,z,) [33,33,33] 
.TP
\fBformat=%g\fP
A \fIprintf(3)\fP-style format specification used
to write positions and velocities for the galaxy.ini
input file. Default: %g
.TP
\fBheader=|4|8\fP
If used, this is the header size for fortran unfromatted data. Normally
the system should know which value to take. See also \fIunfio(1NEMO)\fP.
.TP
\fBexe=\fP
name of GALAXY executable [galaxy.exe]   
.SH FILES
Within the run-directory several files are created. See \fIgalaxy(1NEMO)\fP for a full 
description, but in addition a nemo \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP, \fIgalaxy.snap\fP is created
with the positions, velocities, and potential stored in single precision.
.SH SEE ALSO
galaxy(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Jerry Sellwood (galaxy), Peter Teuben (rungalaxy)
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
18-mar-04	man page created
7-mar-06	remove snap2ini dependancy
.fi
