.TH RUNRADEX 1NEMO "7 January 2012"
.SH NAME
runradex \- RADEX frontend
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrunradex\fP mol= outdir= [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
RADEX is a statistical equilibrium radiative transfer code. This particular
version is a one-dimensional non-LTE radiative
transfer code, that uses the escape probability formulation assuming
an isothermal and homogeneous medium without large-scale velocity
fields. RADEX is comparable to the LVG method and provides a useful
tool in rapidly analyzing a large set of observational data providing
constraints on physical conditions, such as density and kinetic
temperature.
.PP
RADEX provides an alternative to the widely used rotation diagram
method which relies upon the availability of many optically thin
emission lines and is useful only in roughly constraining the
excitation temperature in addition to the column density. RADEX makes
no extrapolation of collisional rate coefficients outside the
temperature range specified in the molecular data file used as
input. Instead they are kept constant.
.PP
In addition to this frontend to the original fortran program, there is
also on online version available (see below).
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBmol=\fP
Input molecular data file [hco+.dat, from $RADEXDAT/] [???]
.TP
\fBoutdir=\fP
Run directory [???]     
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output filename [output.txt]     
.TP
\fBfmin=\fP
The statistical equilibrium calculation takes all spectral lines of
the molecular model into account, but the output only lists lines at
frequencies between the given minimum and maximum frequency given here.
Allowed range is 0.1 - 1e7 GHz.  [50]    
.TP
\fBfmax=\fP
Maximum frequency in GHz. [500]    
.TP
\fBtkin=\fP
Kinetic temperature of the medium in K.  Allowed range
is 0.1 - 10,000. [20]    
.TP
\fBpartner=\fP
Partner(s) names (H2 p-H2 o-H2 e H He
.TP
\fBdensity=\fP
Density of partner(s) [1e4]    
.TP
\fBtbg=\fP
Rayleigh-Jeans equivalent temperature of the background radiation
field, assumed to be of black body shape. Default is the cosmic
microwave background. Units are K. [2.73]    
.TP
\fBcdmol=\fP
Column density of the molecule to calculate line strengths for,
in cm^-2.  [1e13]   
.TP 20
\fBdeltav=\fP
Thermal + turbulent width (FWHM) of the lines, in km/s. Allowed
range is 1e-3 to 1e3. [1.0]   
.SH EXAMPLES
.SH SEE ALSO
http://www.sron.rug.nl/~vdtak/radex/index.shtml
.PP
http://www.strw.leidenuniv.nl/~moldata/ - molecular data (and their format description)
.PP
Van der Tak, F.F.S., Black, J.H., Schöier, F.L., Jansen, D.J., van Dishoeck, E.F., 2007, A&A 468, 627-635.
.SH FILES
.nf
$NEMO/usr/radex/runradex.c - source code
$RADEXDAT/hco+.dat  - default example molecular data file
$rundir/input.txt   - input text file for radex itself, generated by runradex
$rundir/radex.log   - logfile , created by radex
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
07-Jan-12	V0.1 Created	PJT
.fi
