.TH RUNVELFITSS07 1NEMO "7 August 2014"
.SH NAME
runvelfitss07 \- frontend to run Spekkens & Sellwood's 2007 \fIvelfit\fP code
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrunvelfitss07\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Note this code is deprecated and superseded by \fBdiskfit\fP, with 
a NEMO frontend in \fIrundiskfit(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
\fBrunvelfitss07\fP is a NEMO frontend to \fBvelfitss07\fP, and fits a
non-parametric
non-axisymmetric flow to a planar disk galaxy velocity field. Radial (m=0) flow
can be fitted by setting \fBflags(4)\fP, whereas
bisymmetric (m=2) or lobsided (m=1) flow with \fBflags(5)\fP
(see \fBflags=\fP below). The code is usually not well
converging when fitting both.
For more details and a full explanation of the parameters, see 
Spekkens and Sellwood (2007ApJ...664..204S) and the Users Guide
on the VELFIT website.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input velocity field. The first 4 lines are completely ignored, each
subsequent data line must be X,Y,V,DV in 4F10.2 format. Note X is positive to the
west. Up to 50,000 points can
be read in the default compilation. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
output model field. No default.
.TP
\fBpar=\fP
output parameter file. No default.
.TP
\fBcenter=\fP\fIxc,yc\fP
center of velocity field. Note X is positive to the west  [0,0].
.TP
\fBvsys=\fP
systemic velocity [0]     
.TP
\fBpa=\fP
(kinematic) position angle of disk (E of N), the usual convention
applies where this means the receding side of the disk [0]
.TP
\fBinc=\fP
inclination angle of disk [0]   
.TP
\fBrmsism=\fP
ISM turbulence [0]     
.TP
\fBflags=\fP\fIf1,f2,f3,f4,f5,f6\fP
Siz flags which to be fitted/done: geom (inc and pa), center, vsys, radial (m=0), 
lobsides/bisymmetric (m=1,2...), error estimates.
[1,1,1,0,0,0]
.TP
\fBm=\fP
harmonic order of bar perturbation (1 or 2).
[2]
.TP
\fBseed=\fP
Random Seed [-50]     
.TP
\fBbootstrap=\fP
Number of bootstrap samples if errors (\fBflags(6)\fP set) are calculated. 
Note using bootstrap will result in a large runtime.
[200]
.TP
\fBj=\fP
correlation length, in case bootstrap is used [1.0]
.TP
\fBrcirc=\fP
Radius beyond which no non-circular rmotions fitted [50]
.TP
\fBradii=\fP\fIrmin:rmax:step\fP
Ring Radii at which velocity field components are are extracted.
.TP
\fBexe=\fP
name of VELFITSS07 executable. It will have to be found in the user's $PATH. Note that
although the original name of the SS07 is \fIvelfit\fP, this conflicts with
\fIvelfit(1NEMO)\fP and within NEMO we normally rename the SS07 version fo
\fIvelfitss07\fP.  [velfitss07]   
.SH EXAMPLES
The standard example
from the Users Guide can be run as follows (note we are more free to pick a directory):
.nf
runvelfitss07 examp.vels examp1.m examp1.p vsys=500 pa=80 inc=60 radii=2.5:50:2.5
.fi
of which you can find the results in Figure 7.
and the next 3 examples from the Users Guide are run as follows:
.nf
runvelfitss07 examp.vels examp2.m examp2.p vsys=500 pa=80 inc=60 radii=2.5:50:2.5 flags=1,1,1,1,0,0 rmsism=2.0 
runvelfitss07 examp.vels examp3.m examp3.p vsys=500 pa=80 inc=60 radii=2.5:50:2.5 flags=1,1,1,1,0,1 rmsism=2.0
runvelfitss07 examp.vels examp4.m examp4.p vsys=500 pa=80 inc=60 radii=2.5:50:2.5 flags=1,1,1,0,1,1 rmsism=2.0
.fi
which you can find the output .p parameter files in Figure 9, Figure 11 and Figure 3 resp.
.SH BENCHMARK
The 4 examples run in the following CPU time on a  2.4GHz i7-3630QM CPU:
.nf
.ta +1i
1	1.29\"
2	4.86\"
3	-
4	-
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
rotcur(1NEMO), velfit(1NEMO), rotcurshape(1NEMO), rundiskfit(1NEMO)
.nf
2007ApJ...664..204S (Spekkens & Sellwood, 2007)
WEBSITE: http://www.physics.rutgers.edu/~spekkens/velfit/
WEBSITE: http://www.physics.rutgers.edu/~spekkens/diskfit/
.fi
.SH FILES
.nf
NEMO/usr/spekkens/velfit	- original SS07 code/examples (see their WEBSITE)
NEMOBIN/velfitss07	- SS07 executable (see also \fBexe=\fP)
NEMO/src/image/rotcur	- NEMO frontend 
.fi
.SH CAVEATS
The parameter file (velfit.inc) is in the local run directory, and is silently overwritten.
This will seriously hamper running the program in parallel.
.SH EXAMPLES
Below is an example snippet C-shell code to output the table in the format \fBvelfitss07\fP needs:
.nf
#! /bin/csh -f
#
#  create an example input file for velfitss07 from a MIRIAD dataset
#  1) select the inner 40x40 arcsec
#  2) select points where flux mom0 map > 1.0


set region="arcsec,box(-20,-20,20,20)"

set map=mom0a
set vel=mom1a
set sig=mom2a

imtab in=$map region="$region" > tmp.map1.tab
imtab in=$vel region="$region" > tmp.vel1.tab

tail -n +3 tmp.map1.tab | grep -v Found > tmp.map2.tab
tail -n +3 tmp.vel1.tab | grep -v Found > tmp.vel2.tab


#  here's a simple example of constant errors and only use mom0 and mom1

echo "# input file for velfitss07:  $0" 
echo "#      X          Y       VEL       EVEL"
echo "#     asec       asec    km/s       km/s"
echo "#----------------------------------------"
paste tmp.map2.tab tmp.vel2.tab |\
  awk '{ if ($3 > 1.0) printf("%10.2f%10.2f%10.2f%10.2f\n",$1,$2,$6,5.0)}'
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
27-oct-2008	V1.0 : frontend for velfitss07 V1.0 (oct 2008)	PJT
??-???-????	V1.1 : should be compatible with their V1.1 (aug 2009)	PJT
??-???-????	V2.0 : still not implemented	PJT
14-sep-2012	noting this is now deprecated in favor of diskfit	PJT
7-aug-2014	V1_0, V1_1, V2_0 now in a local CVS with NUMREC		PJT
.fi
