.TH S2REB 1NEMO "18 January 2024"

.SH "NAME"
s2reb \- convert a NEMO snapshot to a REBOUND SimulationArchive

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBs2reb\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBs2reb\fP converts a NEMO \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP to a
REBOUND SimulationArchive (RSA).
It currently converts all snapshots, use \fIsnaptrim(1NEMO)\fP or \fIsnapcopy(1NEMO)\fP
if you
need to pre-select. Currently only mass, position and velocity are converted,
the accellerations are still ignored.
.PP
Note that following the REBOUND convention, data are appended to any pre-existing
output filename (\fBout=\fP) that is specified,
counter to the NEMO convention, which refuses to overwrite existing files.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input NEMO snapshot.
.br
No default. 
.TP
\fBout=\fP
output SimulationArchive. Note output will be appended to
any existing RSA.
.br
No default.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Here is an example of creating a NEMO snapshot, with 9 snapshots of 16 particles in
a Plummer sphere configuration, from times 0 to 2.0 in steps of 0.25,
and converting it to a REBOUND  SimulationArchive.
.EX

  hackcode1 out=plum16.out nbody=16 seed=16 fcells=2
  s2reb plum16.out plum16.bin debug=1

.EE
With \fBdebug=1\fP you will also see the times and m, x, vx, ax of the first
particle in each snapshot. Otherwise \fBs2reb\fP would be totally silent.
(except when warning it will append to an existing RSA)

.SH "SEE ALSO"
reb2s(1NEMO), reb_viewer(1NEMO), reb_integrate(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), rebound(8NEMO)
.nf
https://rebound.readthedocs.io
.fi

.SH "FILES"
NEMO/usr/hannorein/nemo/s2reb.c - source code

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
17-jan-20224	Created		PJT
.fi
