.TH s2s 1falcON "31 Oct 2007"

.SH name
\fBs2s\fP \- copies selected snapshots from a nemo snapshot file

.SH synopsis
\fB2s2s\fP [parameter=value]

.SH requirement
requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher, see
http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo.

.SH description
\fBs2s\fP reads from a nemo snapshot file and copies specified data
from selected snapshots to another nemo snapshot file. This is very
similar to snapcopy(1NEMO), except that it allows to copy all data
supported by falcON (including SPH data). A bodyfunc (5falcON) filter
may be applied to reduce the number of bodies copied.

.SH parameters

.TP 12
\fBin=\fP\fIfile\fP
Input file name (nemo snapshot file). Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIfbase\fP
Output file name (nemo snapshot file). Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime range(s)\fP
Specifies the times for the snapshots to be converted. In addition
to the usual NEMO convention of allowing "all", the values "first"
and "last" are also possible. Default: \fBall\fP
.TP
\fBfilter=\fIbodyfunc expression\fP
A valied bodyfunc (5falcON) expression which evaluates to a boolean.
If given, a filter constructed from this expression will be applied
before writing data to output. No default.
.TP
\fBparams=\fIparameters\fP
Comma separated list of parameters required (if any) by the filter.
No default.
.TP
\fBzeromissing=\fIt|f\fP
Boolean specifying whether body data required by the filter, but not
present in the input snapshot, shall be set to zero (alternatively
the code terminates). Default: \fBf\fP
.TP
\fBtime=\fIvalue\fP
If given, the time of the output snapshot is set to \fIvalue\fP. Note
that the new time is set after the filter (if any) has been applied.
No default
.TP
\fBcopy=\fP\fIIOstring\fP
Specifies which data shall be copied.
Default: \fBall\fP.

.SH see also
snapcopy(1NEMO), s2a(1falcON), a2s(1falcON)
.PP

.fi
.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf               \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP.
.fi
.SH author
Walter Dehnen   walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
28-Feb-2007	first version of manual  WD
31-Oct-2007	updated (filter, times=first,last) WD
.fi


