.TH scale_eps 1falcON "19 May 2004"

.SH name
scale_eps \- scales individual softening lengths

.SH synopsis
\fBscale_eps\fP [parameter=value]

.SH requirement
requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher, see
http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo.


.SH description
\fBscale_eps\fP scales individual softening lengths for all
snapshots in a given time range in a NEMO snapshot file and
writes desired body data out in NEMO snapshot format.

.SH parameters

.TP 16
\fBin=\fP\fIfile\fP
Input snapshots are read from \fIfile\fP, which must be in NEMO
snapshot format. If \fIfile\fP=-, input is expected from stdin, useful
for piping data from another program. If individual softening lengths
are not given, a fatal error is issued.  Default: \fBrequired\fP
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIfile\fP
Snapshots are written in NEMO snapshot format to \fIfile\fP with same
body data as the input, unless \fBgive\fP specifies
otherwise. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBfac=\fP\fIval\fP
All individual softening lengths are multiplied by \fIval\fP.
Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBgive=\fP\fIIOstring\fP
If given, only body data indicated by \fIIOstring\fP (and present in
the input) are written out with the snapshot output. No default.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime range(s)\fP
Range(s) of simulation times, for which snapshots shall be processed.
Default: \fBall\fP.

.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf                         \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP
.fi
.SH author
.nf
Walter Dehnen                              walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
18-May-2004	first version of manual  WD
.fi


