.TH SCANFITS 1NEMO "15 October 1999"
.SH NAME
scanfits \- scan a fits file, optionally extract and convert.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBscanfits in=\fPfits_file  [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIscanfits\fP reads a FITS file from disk. It scans the header for
various FITS (mis)interpretations, and reports on bad behaviour.
Some of it can be fixed, in which case the header and/or data
can be output to a file. It is also possible to insert new card
images in a header.
.PP
FITS Header-Data Unit's (HDU) can be extracted individually by
using the \fBhdu\fP keyword. 0 typically signifies all of the
HDU's in a file, you can select them by number, 1 being the first.
.PP
Since scanfits can only process disk FITS files, FITS files on
tape have to be extracted using \fIdd(1)\fP or
similar programs. See also notes in \fIccdfits(1NEMO)\fP how 
to process fits files from tape. 
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is 
also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIfits-infile\fP
input file, in \fIfits(5)\fP format. The input fits file is allowed
to have many HDU's. [no default]. 
.TP
\fBout=\fIfits-outfile\fP
output file, in \fIfits(5)\fP format. If \fBsplit=t\fP this is the
basename of the output filename. The basename can contain a standard
\fIprintf(3)\fP expression (e.g. \fItry%d.fits\fP), in which case
the HDU will be automatically encoded in the output filename(s).
If no filename is given, the input fits 
file is only scanned, and a summary of the
selected HDU's is presented (see also \fBprint=\fP).
The header can also be fixed up (see \fBdelete=\fP,
\fBkeep=\fP, \fBinsert=\fP and \fBfix=\fP below), 
though the data cannot be modified, 
but it is guaranteed that the size of the data portion
on disk will be a multiple of the logical block size 
(\fIblocking * 2880\fP, see below), even if the last did not
have this.  [default: none].
.TP
\fBhdu=\fIinteger_list\fP
List of HDU's of the FITS file that need to be processed.
(\fI Note: currently only one at a time can be processed\fP)
Using a value of 0 will cause all HDU's (the whole fits file)
to be read. [default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBdelete=\fIpattern\fP
A list of patterns can be given, separated by
comma's. Note that no spaces can be used: a space is 
considered part of the pattern.
Each of these is matched against the
card images. If a match is found, that particular
card images is deleted by blanking the card. 
Blank lines can then be deleted from
the FITS header using \fBfix=BLANK\fP, see below.
The list can be empty, in which case no action is undertaken.
Note that only one of \fBkeep=\fP and \fBdelete=\fP can be given.
[default: none].
.TP
\fBkeep=\fIpattern\fP
A list of patterns can be given, separated by
comma's. Each of these is matched against the card images.
When all the card images have been scanned, only the ones
which were part of the \fIkeep\fP patterns will not
be blanked out. Blank lines can subsequently be deleted
from the header by using  \fBfix=BLANK\fP, see below.
The list can be empty, in which case no action is undertaken.
Note that only one of \fBkeep=\fP and \fBdelete=\fP can be given.
\fINote: \fPBe careful when using this keyword, and that the
required keywords are not deleted this way.
[default: none].
.TP
\fBinsert=\fP\fIhfile\fP
A list of files with (currently valid FITS header format) header 
cards, which will
be inserted *as is* just before the END keyword in the above selected HDU's.
Note that these insertions are done after any of the above mentioned 
optional \fBkeep\fP, \fBdelete\fP, \fBfix\fP etc. To get an example
file, extract an editable ASCII header with e.g. \fIfitshead\fP, or
see the example below. 
\fINOTE\fP: The lines need to be exactly 80 characters wide,
any lines shorter than this will be blankfilled according to the FITS rules,
and any lines wider than 80 will be cut.
[Default: none].
.TP
\fBfix=\fIoptions\fP
List of fixes, separated by comma's. Possible options
are: \fBING, TUCSON, LF, BLANK, ZERO, DECORDER, FIRST, LAST, Y2K, UNY2K\fP 
and \fBIRAF0\fP. 
For an description see the section FIXES below.
The list can be empty, in which case no fixes are applied.
[default: none].
.TP
\fBprint=\fIpattern\fP
A list of patterns with which a FITS keyword (really: the first 8
characters on a FITS card image) begins. For these keywords
the value or HISTORY/COMMENT is printed on  lines starting
with a \fB#\fP symbol. Different header sections are
separated with the \fB##\fP symbol in the first column.
Note that is either \fBkeep=\fP or \fBdelete=\fP has been used,
the blanked header cards cannot be seen anymore via the \fBprint=\fP keyword.
Note that printout is only active in scanmode. If an output file is
created, this keyword is not active.
[Default: not used].
.TP
\fBblocking=\fIfactor\fP
Positive integer that denotes the blocking factor with which the input 
file was written. The second number is the blocking factor for output.
If the second number if not supplied, it is taken the same as the first
one.
The blocking factor is the multiple of blocks of 2880 bytes with which 
the data is to be read/written.
The FITS standard allows the blocking factor to be from 1 to 10.
\fIBe aware that datafiles that need a blocking factor larger than
1, may not need it once the data is written to disk.\fP
[default: \fB1,1\fP].
.TP
\fBselect=header|data\fP
Select \fBdata\fP, \fBheader\fP or both (separated by comma's)
for output.
[Default: \fBheader,data\fP].
.TP
\fBsplit=t|f\fP
Boolean (t/f) to designate that when an output file is selected 
(\fBout=\fP) AND
multiple files to be copied (\fBfile=0\fP) the output file is split into
it's ``file'' components. The \fIfits-outfile\fP name will then be a base
filename, and the program generates its own numeric extension.
[Default: \fBfalse\fP].
.SH FIXES
This is a list of the currently supported fixes for the header.
Each of them is applied in the order as 
they appear in the \fBfix=\fP keyword. Their
names have to be supplied in full, separated by commas. No spaces.
.TP 20
\fBING\fP
Isaac Newton Group (ING) uses 9 blanks in the first column,
followed by the word \fBING\fP, followed by a space, after
which an ING specific keywords start. If you want to promote
these to regular keywords, a shift of 13 characters to the left
does the job. The 13 rightmost characters in the card image are 
set to blank.
.TP 20
\fBTUCSON\fP
Certain FITS files coming out of NRAO TUCSON have card images
starting with \fBSINGLDSH\fP. The next 10 characters are used for
another level of identification, and at position 19 the actual
FITS-like keyword starts. By using this option the FITS keyword
starting at position 19 is promoted to a real FITS keyword, by 
shifting those 18 positions to the left. The 18 rightmost 
characters in the card image are set to blank.
.TP
\fBLF\fP
Character 80 (the last one) in each header card image
is patched with a linefeed (newline) (\fIhexadecimal 0x0A\fP). 
This is useful to edit the header with an ASCII editor on UNIX.
It would normally be used with \fBoptions=header\fP.
See also \fIfitshead(1NEMO)\fP if you don't want to see
trailing blanks.
.TP
\fBBLANK\fP
Delete all card images which are completeley blank. This is often the
result of either old style FITS files, or when card images had been
blanked before with \fBdelete=\fP\fIpattern\fP or \fBkeep=\fP\fIpattern\fP
 Since the \fIfix\fP is applied
\fIafter\fP the \fIblank\fP only one run of scanfits is needed to blank
out and delete certain card 
images, e.g. \fBscanfits in out delete=ING fix=BLANK\fP.
.TP
\fBZERO\fP
Replace all zero's in the header by blanks.
.TP
\fBFIRST\fP
Retain only the first keyword if they occur multiple times in the header.
The other card images are blanked.
HISTORY and COMMENT and anything that does not have an '=' in column 9
are not affected.
.TP
\fBLAST\fP
Retain only the last keyword if they occur multiple times in the header.
The other card images are blanked.
HISTORY and COMMENT and anything that does not have an '=' in column 9
are not affected.
.TP
\fBY2K\fP
If a keyword \fBDATExxxx\fP is present, and it matches the pattern
"dd/mm/yy", it will be transformed to "yyyy-mm-dd", which makes the
file Y2K compliant.  FYI: the unix \fIdate(1)\fP
command produces Y2K compliant
with \fBdate +%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S.%N\fP, where the subsecond \fB.%N\fP portion is optional.
The old style is done with  \fBdate +%d/%m/%y\fB,  which does not sort lexically.
.TP
\fBUNY2K\fP
If a keyword \fBDATExxxx\fP is present, and it matches the pattern
"yyyy-mm-dd", it will be transformed to "dd/mm/yy", which makes the
file non-Y2K compliant. This might help you getting by some old readers.
Highly discouraged of course.
.TP
\fBDECORDER\fP
If the keyword \fBDECORDER\fP is present, and it has a value \fBT\fP,
it will replace this keyword by a COMMENT and set a flag such that
of all data the bytes are byte swapped when read (or copied) according
to \fIabs(BITPIX)\fP.
.TP
\fBIRAF0\fP
Replace the FITS keyword \fBHISTORY\fP by \fBCOMMENT\fP. This has been
proven useful to be able to see al that information by the \fIiraf\fP
program \fIimhead\fP. 
.TP
\fBPROMOTE\fP
Replace the first FITS keyword \fBXTENSION\fP with \fBSIMPLE = T\fP, so
an extension is promoted to become the primary HDU. Of course this only
makes sense if you are extracting single HDUs, e.g. via the
\fBhdu=\fP or \fBsplit=t\fP options.
.SH PROCESSING ORDER
With all the possible editing capabilities, it is important to 
know the processing order:
.nf
        select the valid HDU's, 0=all (\fBhdu=\fP)
        delete header items by pattern matching (\fBdelete=\fP)
        keep header items by pattern matching (\fBkeep=\fP)
        insert new header items before the END card (\fBinsert=\fP)
        fix header items (in order of individual \fBfix=\fP components)
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
To extract the header in a pleasing manner, such that \fImore(1)\fP
can be used, one can use:
.nf
    % scanfits in=junk.fits out=junk.header fix=LF select=header
or
    % fitshead junk.fits  > junk.header
.fi
where the latter example does not contain trailing blanks anymore.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccdfits(1NEMO), dd(1), fits(5NEMO), fitshead(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/image/fits         scanfits.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
27-mar-90	V1.0 Written                     	PJT
17-jul-90	V1.1 added fix=, blank=            	PJT
 7-mar-91	V1.3 added split=,keep=, and TUSCON 	PJT
25-jul-91	V1.4 added the IRAF0 fix - blocking  	PJT
30-jul-91	V1.4b added Jeff Hesters brilliant DECORDER fix  	PJT
11-apr-92	V1.5 changed name of file= to hdu=	PJT
7-aug-92   	fixed ctype/ttype bugs in fits(3NEMO)	PJT
13-jan-93    	V1.7 insert= now implemented Arie!	PJT
2-dec-98	V1.8 fix=PROMOTE for lgm's nicmos 	PJT
15-oct-99	V1.8b fix=UNY2K (and Y2K)for Staguhn's GILDAS  	pjt
.fi
