.TH SCFM 1NEMO "18 December 1999"
.SH NAME
scfm - N-body integrator using the self-consistent field method
.SH SYNOPSIS
scfm
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBscfm\fP is
a code to evolve self-gravitating systems using a self-consistent
field approach.  This version has been optimized for supercomputers
and is fully vectorized.  The code is written in standard FORTRAN,
although some CRAY-specific vector intrinsic routines have been
used.
.PP
The computational system of units is determined by the input data.
No explicit assumtions about the value of the gravitational 
constant have been made; it is read in as a parameter.
Particles are not required to have identical masses.
.SH PARAMETERS
Two files (both in ascii) determine the input parameters and input
condition, and must be present at the start of the program.
.PP
The first one is the
input parameter file with the name \fBSCFPAR\fP. It 
contains, line by line, the input parameters for this run. In the table 
below the values for the benchmark input parameter file are given
in square brackets:
.PP
.nf
.ta +0.5i +1i

	\fB Comment\fP  	Private comment. (cannot be a null string)
	\fB headline\fP  	Identification string for the run (max 50 char) [\fBtest\fP]
	\fB nsteps\fP    	Number of timesteps [\fB100\fP]
	\fB noutbod\fP   	Output system state (file \fBSNAP\fP\fIxxx\fP) once every noutbod steps [\fB100\fP]
	\fB noutlog\fP   	Output logfile data (file \fBSCFMLOG\fP) once every noutlog steps [\fB10\fP]
	\fB dtime\fP     	Integration timestep [\fB0.01\fP]
	\fB gravconst\fP	Gravitional Constant [\fB1\fP]
	\fB selfgrav\fP   	[\fB.TRUE.\fP]
	\fB inptcoef\fP   	[\fB.FALSE.\fP]
	\fB outpcoef\fP      	[\fB.FALSE.\fP]
	\fB zeroodd\fP   	[\fB.FALSE.\fP]
	\fB zeroeven\fP   	[\fB.FALSE.\fP]
	\fB fixacc\fP   	[\fB.FALSE.\fP]
.fi
Note that the first line is a redundant comment not used by the program,
but needs to be present.
.PP
The second file has to be named \fBSCFBI\fP, and contains the input 
bodies. The first line must contain the number of bodies, and the
time of this snapshot, followed by 
.PP
Output files created are \fBSNAP\fP\fIxxx\fP, which contains all the
requested (see \fBnoutbod\fP) output snapshots, one for each 
requested output time in ascii \fIntmpv(5NEMO)\fP format.

which contains a log (see \fBnoutlog\fP)
of the run and \fBSCFBO\fP, which contains
a binary (machine dependable) dump of the last snapshot.
\fINote that these output files must not be present when the 
program is to be run.\fP (ANSI FORTRAN) 
.PP
To avoid excessive overhead, \fBnoutlog\fP should be larger than 1,
typically ~ 10, depending on total number of steps though.
.SH RUNNING
A shell script \fBrunscfm\fP is available to ease running this
program slightly, and also prevents you from running two versions of
\fBscfm\fP in the same directory.
Script usage:
.PP
\fBrunscfm\fP \fIinput_snapshot output_snapshot pars_file\fP
.PP
The \fIinput_snapshot\fP and 
\fIoutput_snapshot\fP are now in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP
format, whereas the \fIpars_file\fP is in the format described in
the previous \fBPARAMETERS\fP section.
.SH EXAMPLES
Preparing an input dataset for scfm can be done as follows:
.nf
    \fIsnapprint in=i.snap options=m,x,y,z,vx,vy,vz header=t > i.tab\fP
.fi
.PP
Converting output tables made by scfm into \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP can be
done as follows:
.nf
tabtos in=p.tab out=o.snap header=nbody,time block1=mass,pos,vel
.fi
.SH MAKE
May need another version of second.f on some systems. See also
the source code directory of \fBtreecode3\fP.
.SH BENCHMARKS
Timings are from 1000 integration steps.
.nf
.ta +1i +1i +2i +1i
machine 	cpu	N-body
US-140     	143"	1000
US-140     	269"	2000
US-140     	611"	4000
US-140    	1072"	8000
US-140       	....	16000

US-2           	380	8000
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Lars Hernquist
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
SCFPAR                    	input parameters (ascii)
SCFBI                    	input bodies (ascii)
SCFLOG                    	output logfile
SCFOUT                    	output something ('termfile')
SCFELxxx                  	output something (1/body)
SNAPxxx                  	output bodies
SCFICOEF                 	input coefficients file
SCFOCOEF                 	output coefficients file
.PP
~/usr/lars/scfm/        	original LARS version
~/src/nbody/evolve/scfm/     	original LARS version
.fi
.SH BENCHMARK
Some timings for the standard benchmark (100 timesteps, 1024 particles):
.nf
Pentium-333	6.93"
Pentium-500	4.58
Pentium-933     2.76    
Ultra-10/300	9.64	(g77 -O)
		7.20	(f77 -O)
		7.33	(f77 -fast)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
runscfm(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), snapprint(1NEMO), ntmpv(5NEMO)
.PP
Hernquist, L. & Ostriker, J. (1992)
\fIA Self-Constistent Field Method for Galactic Dynamics\fP,
ApJ. 386, 375.
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
1-jan-91	V1 Public release created	Lars Hernquist (@UCB)
7-jul-97	integrated in NEMO/usr tree         	PJT
20-jan-98	integrated in NEMO/src tree          	PJT
18-dec-99	fixed some Makefile bugs, added bench timings	PJT
.fi
