.TH SDINFO 1NEMO "15 March 2023"

.SH "NAME"
sdinfo \- sdfits (BINTABLE) info and benchmark

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsdinfo\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsdinfo\fP list some tabular properties of an SDFITS (and some dialects) file, and has 
options to benchmark some basic operations.
.PP
SDFITS files have a BINTABLE extension named "SINGLE DISH", and are used to store
single dish spectra and all associated variables. This program was 
written to provide size info and can run a few basic benchmarks. A few known dialects
to this are known:  "CIMAFITS" (Arecibo) and "MATRIX" (30m/CLASS), the latter designates
the spectrum via a "SPECTRUM" column name, instead of the more common "DATA" column name
in classic "SDFITS".

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input SDFITS fits file. Multiple files can be given as well, as a space or comma separated this.
No default.
.TP
\fBmom=\fP\fI
If set to a non-negative value, this is the max. moment of the stats being computed. 
mom=0 is a special case, and will just sum, and be much faster than
general moment computation.
You also need this option if a row (see row= below) is output.
[-1].
.TP
\fBcols=\fP
Column names to track. Currently it just gives the column number and format used.  Default: not used.
.TP
\fBdims=\fP
A list of dimensions how the data-block should be processed. The procedure of processing is
set by the \fBproc=\fP keyword.  For example dims=2,11,2,2,4.   The product
of the dimensions should be NAXIS2 (or less than) from the BINTABLE. Default: not used.
.TP
\fBproc=\fP
The procedure of processing can be set with this. Currently only one specific example
(see EXAMPLES below) for ngc5291 is implemented. Options would be PS (Position Switching),
FS (frequency switching), NOD (nodding), TP (total power). NOT IMPLEMENTED YET, if ever.
.TP
\fBnchan=\fP
Override the number of channels found in the data. Some dataset will find nchan=0 and it will
be useful to set this here. This number is related to NAXIS1 in the BINTABLE.
.TP
\fBrow=\fP
If used, this row (0 being the first) will be output as an ascii spectrum. This spectrum has two
columns: channel number (0 being the first) and the spectrum value, native units.
.TP
\fBraw=\fP
Do only raw I/O?   If selected, no SDFITS processing
is done, the file is just read in blocks of 2880 bytes. [f]
.TP
\fBhdu=\fP
Which HDU to process. Normally hdu=2 should contain the BINTABLE, but it's possible
there are more. [2]
.TP
\fBblfit=\fP
Another benchmark option:  setting the blfit (baseline fit order) to a non-negative
number, a baseline of that order will be fitted to each spectrum. [-1]
.TP
\fBbench=\fP
How many times the procedure should be processed. This will only re-execute the procedure,
not the alloc/free that are needed for this. Using 0 will bypass the procedure. Default: 1
.TP
\fBmode=\fP
Another benchmark option: setting this to a non-negative value will restrict how far the
SDFITS is processed.
.TP
\fBdatadim=1|2\fP
Another benchmark option: allowing all data to appear in one long one dimensional
DATA[nrows*nchan] array vs. a two dimensional DATA[nrows][nchan] array.
[1]

.SH "CAVEATS"
By default NEMO compiles in double precision. The DATA1[nrows*nchan] "ONEDIM" mode will this occupy half the
memory of a DATA2[nrows][nchan] array. NEMO will need to be compiled in single mode to have them use the same
memory.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example takes all fits files matching a particular pattern and summarize their contents.
.nf
    ls *.?.fits > dirin.lis
    sdinfo in=@dirin.lis

AGBT15B_287_35.raw.vegas.A.fits : Nrows: 2168   Ncols: 70  Nchan: 32768
AGBT15B_287_35.raw.vegas.B.fits : Nrows: 2168   Ncols: 70  Nchan: 32768
AGBT15B_287_35.raw.vegas.C.fits : Nrows: 2168   Ncols: 70  Nchan: 32768
AGBT15B_287_39.raw.vegas.A.fits : Nrows: 3004   Ncols: 70  Nchan: 32768
AGBT15B_287_39.raw.vegas.B.fits : Nrows: 3004   Ncols: 70  Nchan: 32768
AGBT15B_287_39.raw.vegas.C.fits : Nrows: 3004   Ncols: 70  Nchan: 32768

.fi
Here is a benchmark of the GBT ngc5291 example:
.nf
    time sdinfo ngc5291.fits dims=2,11,2,2,4 bench=100 help=c
    ### nemo Debug Info: ngc5291.fits : Nrows: 352   Ncols: 46  Nchan: 32768
    ### nemo Debug Info: tcal: 24   cal: 46 sig: 45 fdnum: 0 ifnum: 0 plnum: 0
    ### nemo Debug Info: DATA keyword TDIM7 = (32768,1,1,1)
    ### Warning [sdinfo]: PS Reduction procedure in 5 dimensions; data_col = 7
    ### nemo Debug Info: DATA6 3.71521 0.0366262 3.30351     1.42437
    ### nemo Debug Info: CPU_USAGE sdinfo : 3.09    3.04 0.04  0.00 0.00  1803498650
    real    0m3.095s
    user    0m3.047s
    sys     0m0.048s

.fi

Here is a way to plot a spectrum, with the X-axis being the channel number
.nf
    sdinfo ngc5291.fits t row=11 | tabcomment - | tabplot -
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
scanfits(1NEMO), fitshead(1NEMO)
.PP
https://fits.gsfc.nasa.gov/registry/sdfits.html

.SH "FILES"
src/image/fits
.PP
http://safe.nrao.edu/wiki/pub/GB/Data/GBTIDLExampleAndSampleData/ngc5291.fits

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben
.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
23-Nov-2019	V0.1 Created	PJT
14-dec-2019	V0.4 dimension analysis w/ ngc5291	PJT
18-dec-2019	V0.7 Handle CIMAFITS and MATRIX extensions	PJT
27-sep-2021	V0.9 Improved column reading, display TDIM	PJT
15-mar-2023	V1.0 Finalized more benchmarks		PJT
.fi
