.TH SNAPCENTER 1NEMO "26 February 1997"
.SH NAME
snapcenter - translate snapshot data to coordinates centered on
subset of bodies
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapcenter in=\fPsnap-file \fBout=\fPsnap-file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapcenter\fP translates the phase-space data in an input snapshot
file to a coordinate system centered on an arbitrary subset of bodies.
More precisely, real-valued weights are specified for each body,
and used to compute a weighted phase-space centroid, which becomes the
new origin of the coordinate system. 
.PP
Alternatively a new snapshot with a single particle of total mass and these
new center-of-mass coordintes can be produced.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized; they may be given in any order.
.TP 24
\fBin=\fP\fIsnap-file\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap-file\fP, which must be in snapshot format.
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIsnap-file\fP
Output data is written to \fIsnap-file\fP.
No default.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime-range\fP
Only data frames with time values within \fItime-range\fP, which
is of the form, eg, "1.0:1.5,2.5,3.0", will be translated.
[Default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBweight=\fP\fIexpression\fP
The value of \fIexpression\fP is used to compute the centroid.
\fIexpression\fP is a real-valued C language expression over the
real values \fBx\fP, \fBy\fP, \fBz\fP, \fBvx\fP, \fBvy\fP, \fBvz\fP,
\fBphi\fP, \fBm\fP, \fBt\fP, and the integer value \fBi\fP.
[Default \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fPreport=t|f\fP
Report the center of mass coordinates. These are 2*NDIM numbers,
position and velocity, of the new center of mass in the old
coordinates.
If you want to use \fIsnapcenter\fP in a pipe, you need to reset
\fBreport=f\fP, since both standard output and filestruct output
will get merged, and become illegable for the next program in the
pipe.
[Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fPone=t|f\fP
Write output center of mass (COM) as a single body with total mass
and COM coordinates as computed from \fBweight=\fP.
[Default: \fBf\fP].
.SH SEE ALSO
snapcenterp(1NEMO), bodytrans(3NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.PP
W.L.Sweatman - (1993) MNRAS 261, 497. 1993MNRAS.261..497S
.PP
Picard,A. and Johnston, H.M. - (1994) A&A, 76.
.PP
Cruz., F et al. - (2002) Rev.Mex.de Astr.y Astr. 38, 225
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes.
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.ta +1i +4i
.nf
3-jul-87	Created ?	Josh
26-aug-93	1.4 added tab= for displaying center (@Tokyo)	Peter
29-nov-93	1.4 documented earlier report= (ala tab=) addition	PJT
26-feb-97	1.6 added one= and changed default of report=	PJT
.fi
