.TH SNAPSTAT 1NEMO "24 August 1988"
.SH NAME
snapstat \- compute various statistics of an N-body snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapstat in=\fPsnapshot_file  [parameters=values...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnapstat\fP provides various statistics of an N-body snapshot,
such as moments in phase space, various radii (such as
mass-fraction radii, virial radius and core radius)
and generalized surface density, total energetics.
For particles with binding energy larger than
a specifief amount  a shape analysis is done.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is
also given:
.TP 25
\fBin=\fIin_file\fP
Input data are read from \fIin_file\fP, which must be 
in standard \fISnapShot(5)\fP format [No default].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fIrange\fP
Range of times to do the analysis on. E.g.
"0:10,12,13" [default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBexact=t|f\fP

.TP
\fBminradfrac=\fIvalue\\fP
Fudge factor, smaller than but not too close to 1, for
core-radius determination. A better algorithm is expected in some
future version [default: \fB0.1\fP].
.TP
\fBall=\fIt|f\fP
This overrides all other subsequent logicals (exept \fBexact\fP)
who determine what parameters to determine for the system 
[default: \fBfalse\fP].
.TP
\fBpot=\fIt|f\fP
Logical if to determine energetics (potential en kinetic) of system. 
This is a time consuming (N*N) part [default: \fBfalse\fP].
.TP
\fBeps=\fIvalue\fP
Value of the softening length for potential energy
calculation [default: \fB0.025\fP].
.TP
\fBr_h=\fIt|f\fP
Logical if to determine the fractional mass radii of the system.
Currently implemented it will return radii at which the mass
fraction is 10%..90% in steps of 10% [default: \fBfalse\fP].
.TP
\fBr_v=\fIt|f\fP
Logical if to determine the virial radius of the system.
This is a time consuming (N*N) part [default: \fBfalse\fP].
.TP
\fBr_c=\fIt|f\fP
Logical if to determine the core radius of the system
[default: \fBfalse\fP].
.TP
\fBrms=\fIt|f\fP
Logical if to determine the full rms velocity dispersion
of the system [default: \fB false\fP].
.TP
\fBecutoff=\fIvalue\fP
Value of the energy above which the particles will be discarded
from a shape analysis. [default: \fB0.0\fP, i.e. only
'bound' particles].
\fBverbose=\fIt|f\fP
Logical if you need a lot of explanatory text around your numbers.
The \fIfalse\fP option is often used to make tables for further
plotting using plotting packages as Mongo(1)
[default: \fBfalse\fP]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapkinem(1NEMO),snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH BUGS
The algorithm to determine the core radius is noisy.
.PP
Shape analysis is a straight moment analysis, and hence
perhaps too heavily weighted for particles at large radii.
.PP
Keyword \fBverbose\fP is not fully implemented yet in V1.3.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/pjt/nbody     snapstat.c snapstat.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
 9-Jan-87	V1.0: created                     	PJT
24-Jul-87	V1.1: cleanup up, doc written     	PJT
10-Nov-87	V1.3: output enhancements, improved doc	PJT
7-jun-88	V1.4: new filestruct                	PJT
24-aug-88	V1.4a: cleanup                        	PJT
