.TH SNAPMERGE_A 1NEMO "28 November 2006"
.SH NAME
snapmerge_a_sp, snapmerge_a_dp \- Merge the second input snapshot at the end of the
first one (single and double precision output).
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapmerge_a_sp in1=... in2=...\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnapmerge_a\fP merges the second input snapshot at the end 
of the first snapshot but without making a copy of the first
snapshot. This is very convenient when the first snapshot
is very large and prevent problems of space disk. \fBPlease, notice that
the input snaphot will be modified. You have been warned...\fP
.PP
  The program go to the end of the first snapshot and get nbody
and time (\fItlast\fP). Then, it reads each timestep of the second snapshot and starts
to append to the first snapshot, only if the time of the current timestep
is greater than \fItlast\fP, and if the nbody values in both snapshots are identical.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin1=\fP
Input NEMO snapshot [???]    
.TP 20
\fBin2=\fP
Input NEMO snapshot to append after in1 [???]
.SH RETURN VALUE
The program print out (on stdout) the following codes:
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
\fB-1\fP  : an error occured, no merging.
\fB 0\fP  : the second snapshot does not have a time step greater than the last
      time step of the first snapshot, no merging.
\fB 1\fP  : merging have been successfully completed.
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
The following perl script program, convert all snapshots produced by the
gadget2 program to a single one NEMO file. It can be usefull to make
analysis of the whole NEMO snaphot or to display with glnemo.
.nf

#!/usr/bin/perl
use strict;
my $out="cosmo256.snap_sp";
foreach my $i ( <snapshot_???> ) {         # read all snapshot_XXX
    printf STDERR "[$i]\\n";
    system("gadget2nemo $i /tmp/snap.$$"); # gadget2nemo

    if ( ! -f $out ) {
        system("mv /tmp/snap.$$ $out");    # first snapshot
    }
    else {
        system("snapmerge_a_sp $out /tmp/snap.$$");# merging
        system("/bin/rm /tmp/snap.$$");
    }
}
.fi
.PP
Notice this is an example for the single precision (_sp) version, the
double precision (_dp) works the same way.
.SH SEE ALSO
snapmerge(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
src/nbody/trans/snapmerge_a.c
.SH AUTHOR
Jean-Charles LAMBERT
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
28-Nov-06	V1.21: added to CVS               JCL
28-nov-06	merged two man pages into one     PJT
29-nov-06	fix perl script example in manual JCL
.fi
