.TH SNAPPEAK 1NEMO "6 June 1988"
.SH NAME
snappeak \- find peak in each phase space coordinate using a mode analysis
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnappeak in=\fIin_file\fP [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnappeak\fP finds the peak in the distribution of points in phase space.
When the coordinate system is cartesian, the peaks in position actually
correspond to the density center. 
.PP
This method is an application of the general problem of the statistical
analysis of a (probablity) distribution function. One can 
determine the \fImedian\fP, position
where there is equal chance (half) of being to the left or right,
the \fImean\fP being the averaged position of a distribution function and
the \fImode\fP where the distribution function takes its maximum value 
(probability). This program computes the maximum \fBpeak\fP value of
the distribution function in each coordinate independantly.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized:
.TP 24
\fBin=\fIin_file\fP
input file, in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format.  Default: none.
.TP
\fBwindow=\fInumber\fP
The \fInumber\fP of particles used in the sliding window of the mode analysis.
It is a kind of smoothing parameter. [default: \fB100\fP].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fItime-ranges\fP
Only snapshots with time values within \fItimes-ranges\fP, which is
of the form \fBts[:te],...\fP, will be 
copied. [default: \fBall\fP].
.SH CAVEATS
This program has not been loaded in the official release of NEMO. 
If you need it, ask the author for a copy or to add it to NEMO. Better
alternatives are \fIsnapcenter(1NEMO)\fP,  and \fIsnapdens(1NEMO)\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
xx-nov-86	V1.0: original version   	Peter Teuben
15-jan-87	V1.0a: improvements	PJT
10-jun-87	V1.0b: some cleanup	PJT
6-jun-88	V1.1: new filestruct	PJT
.fi


