.TH SNAPGRIDSMOOTH 1NEMO "7 November 2006"
.SH NAME
snapgridsmooth \- grid a snapshot into a 3D image cube with adaptive smoothing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBsnapgridsmooth in=\fPsnapshot \fBout=\fPimage [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapgridsmooth\fP grids three arbitrary bodytrans expressions 
(default: \fBx\fP, \fBy\fP and \fBz\fP) of a snapshot into a datacube
with adaptive smoothing based on a bodytrans variable. Unlike
\fIsnapgrid(1NEMO)\fP, which handles 2D projections and certain types
of line-of-sight processing, this program simply accumulates the emission
in each cell, and optional smoothing, normalization and periodicity.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters can be given in any order if the keyword is also passed with it:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, must be in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. Multiple snapshots can
be stacked uses the \fBtimes=\fP keyword: see \fBstack=\fP below.  [no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, will be in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format. Depending on the use
of \fBtimes=\fP, \fBstack=\fP and \fBevar=\fP (see below) one more multiple
cubes can be output.
[no default].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fIt1:t2,t3,..\fP
Selection of the times of snapshots to be selected for gridding.
For \fBstack=t\fP all snapshots will be co-added into one image,
however selecting \fBstack=f\fP or selecting multiple \fBevar\fP's
one can request multiple output images.
[Default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBxrange=\fIxb:xe\fP
Range in \fBxvar\fP to bin. Note that all particles outside this grid
will be discarded, even if \fBperiodic=t\fP  (see below).
[default: \fB-2:2\fP].
.TP
\fByrange=\fIxb:xe\fP
Range in \fByvar\fP to bin [default: \fB-2:2\fP].
.TP
\fBzrange=\fIxb:xe\fP
Range in \fBzvar\fP to bin [default: \fB-2:2\fP].
.TP
\fBxvar=\fP\fIx-expression\fP
The value of \fIx-expression\fP is gridded along the X axis.
[default: \fBx\fP].
.TP
\fByvar=\fP\fIy-expression\fP
The value of \fIy-expression\fP is gridded along the Y axis.
[default: \fBy\fP].
.TP
\fBzvar=\fP\fIz-expression\fP
The value of \fIz-expression\fP is gridded along the Z axis
[default: \fBz\fP].
.TP
\fBevar=\fIemissivity\fP
Variable to denote emissivity (density if you wish)
per particle. You can select more than 1
expression, in which case different images will be written out
(only in \fBstack=f\fP mode)
[default: \fBm\fP].
.TP
\fBsvar=\fIsmoothing\fP
Variable to denote gaussian smoothing 
.TP
\fBnx=\fIx-pixels\fP
Number of pixels along the X axis of the cube [default: \fB64\fP].
.TP
\fBny=\fIy-pixels\fP
Number of pixels along the Y axis of the cube [default: \fB64\fP].
.TP
\fBnz=\fIz-pixels\fP
Number of pixels along the Z axis of the cube [default: \fB64\fP].
.TP
\fBstack=t|f\fP
Should all snapshots from the input file be stacked, or write one
image per selected (see \fBtimes=\fP) time? [default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBperiodic=t|f\fP
If set true, smoothing results will be applied
on a periodic grid.  Particles that fell outside the x,y,z grid,
however, are discarded and never smoothed/aliased into the visible
grid. 
[Default: f]
.TP
\fBnormalize=t|f\fP
If set, and if gaussian smoothing is applied (see svar=), the emission
(evar=) is normalized as to conserve it.
[Default: t]
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example ...
.SH CAVEAT
This program was cloned from \fIsnapgrid(1NEMO)\fP, and the keywords
stack= and multiple values for evar= have not been tested out.
.PP 
Unlike \fIsnapgrid(1NEMO)\fP, this program is meant to use the 3
gridding variables in the same units. The snapgridsmooth an x-y-vz cube
is tricky.
.PP
With normalized smoothing and no periodic boundaries, the normalization
factor for particles near the edge the normalization factor is lower,
since it still wants to preserve the total emission.
.SH UNITS
Units are maintained in the same way as in snapshots, they don't have
a specific name, but carry their normal meaning 'length', 'velocity'
and 'mass'. Since \fIsnapgridsmooth\fP calculates space densities,
its units are formally 'mass' per cubic 'length'
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapgrid(1NEMO), tsf(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), image(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
src/nbody/image  	snapgridsmooth.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
1-nov-06	V0.1: Created	PJT/ES
6-nov-06	V0.3: added normalize= and fixes for that	PJT
.fi
