.TH SNAPVRATIO 1NEMO "31 July 1997"
.SH NAME
snapvratio \- compute various global virials (clausius, newton)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapvratio\fP \fBin=\fIsnapshot\fP [parameter=value] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapvratio\fP computes the global virial of a snapshot. It works
best if the snapshot has potentials as well as forces are present.
They are normally created by the N-body integrator, but see also
e.g. \fIhackforce(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
Currently a table is produced with the following entries:
.nf
        \fItime, -2T/W,  T+W,  T,  W,  W_1,  W_2, Mass\fP
.fi
where \fIW\fP is the potential energy (which one depends on the
selected \fBwmode\fP). \fBwmode=phi\fP is the potential
as obtained from appropriately
summing the product of masses and potentials in the snapshot, 
\fBwmode=acc\fP gets the Clausius virial:
.nf
        \fIWacc = sum_(m \fP\fBr.f\fP)
.fi
(sum over all masses (\fIm\fP), position (\fBr\fP) and forces (\fBf\fP)),
and \fBwmode=exact\fP the Newtonian (m/r) potential.
.PP
\fIW_1\fP and \fPW_2\fP in the table
are the other two potentials not selected
as the prime potential, the original order of the potentials is
\fBacc, phi, exact\fP. The choosen one comes first, the others ones
follow in the order left from this array.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIInFile\fP
Input file name (snapshot). No default.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fIt1:t2,t3:t4,...\fP
Times to select snapshot. [Default: all].
.TP
\fBwmode=\fP\fIW_mode\fP
Mode how to compute the prime potential: choice is between
\fBacc\fP (forces from the snapshot, hence Clausius virial),
\fBphi\fP (potentials from the snapshot),
and \fBexact\fP (computed exact newtonian potential m/r [\fIexpensive!\fP]).
The remaining unchoosen ones are listed as W_1 resp. W_2 in the output
table. [Default: \fBacc\fP]
.TP
\fBnewton=t|f\fP
Do an N^2 newtonian calculation too?  If true, an N^2 algorithm will
be used and
[Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
\fBeps=\fP
Standard gravitational softening for \fBmode=exact\fP. 
[Default: \fB0.05\fP]
.SH SEE ALSO
snapstat(1NEMO), hackforce(1NEMO), snapvirial(1NEMO)
.PP
Marmo, C.; Secco, L. \fIClausius' virial vs. total potential energy in the dynamics of a two-component system\fP
(\fB2003NewA....8..629M\fP)
.SH AUTHOR
Scott Foster
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
05-nov-91	V0.0 Created	SMF
27-Mar-92	V0.1 added clausius - changed columns and names  	PJT
3-apr-92	V0.2 added wmode= keyword  	PJT
13-mar-97	V0.4 added total mass to the output	PJT
30-jul-97	V0.5 added eps= 	PJT
.fi
