.TH SNAPGALVIEW 1NEMO "17 February 2003"
.SH NAME
snapgalview \- coordinate transformations for galactic viewing
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapgalview\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnapgalview\fP transforms a snapshot for internal viewing as
if it was our galaxy. For this the "LSR" needs to be defined,
either by giving a phase space coordinate (via \fBpos=\fP
and \fBvel=\fP) or by referring to a specific particle in
the snapshot (see \fBcenter=\fP).
.PP
The snapshot is then recentered in phase space as to be at rest
w.r.t. that LSR point, and oriented such that the "galactic center"
(defined as 0,0,0 in the input snapshot)
would be seen towards the positive X-axis (glat=glon=0).
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input snapshot filename, in standard snapshot format. 
No default.
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
Output snapshot filename.
No default.
.TP 20
\fBpos=\fP
Position vector of the LSR. By default not used.
.TP 20
\fBvel=\fP
Velocity vector of the LSR.
By default not used.
.TP 20
\fBcenter=\fP
Star # to represent LSR (0=first). By default not used.
.TP 20
\fBtimes=\fP
Times to select snapshots from [all]  
.SH BUGS
The galactic plane is fixed at z=0, therefore selecting an LSR with Z or VZ not
zero can give strange results. Use programs like \fIsnaprect(1NEMO)\fP
to re-orient your disk in the Z=0 plane.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is something close enough to our galactic disk, and after transforming
to a particle (half way out to the edge of 20 kpc),
of a galactic GLON-VRAD diagram. Notice the proper way of viewing
angular sky coordinates from right to left:
.nf
    % mkdisk out=disk1 nbody=100000 potname=halo potpars=0,200,1 rmin=0 rmax=20 mass=1 sign=-1
    % set i=25000
    % snapgalview disk1 - center=$i | snapplot - xvar=glon yvar=vr xrange=180:-180 yrange=-200:200 
      LSR(25000):  Pos:9.54165 -2.99296 0  |10.0001|    Vel: -59.5619 -189.885 0 |199.007|
.fi
.PP
Useful bodytrans functions that have been predefined are:
.nf
.ta +1i
glon	Galactic Longitude (-180..180)
glat	Galactic Latitude (-90..90)
mul	Proper motion in longitude (sans the 4.74 factor)
mub	Proper motion in latitude (sans the 4.74 factor)

.fi
which come from the following formulae (the galactic center pointing along the
positive X axis, galactic rotation is positive, i.e. clock wise and thus
along the positive Y axis:
.ta +1.5i
.nf
	x = r cos(l) cos(b)
	y = r sin(l) cos(b)
	z = r sin(l)
and
	r mu_l = -vx sin(l)        + vy cos(l)
	r mu_b = -vx cos(l) sin(b) - vy sin(l) sin(b) + vz cos(b)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
snaptrans(1NEMO), snapshift(1NEMO), snaprotate(1NEMO), mkgalorbit(1NEMO)
.nf
KDUtils:    https://github.com/tvwenger/kd    Utilities to calculate kinematic distances 
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
17-Feb-03	V1.0 Created	PJT
.fi
