.TH SNAPRECT 1NEMO "15 March 2002"
.SH NAME
snaprect \- diagonalize moment-of-inertia of snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnaprect in=\fPsnap_file \fBout=\fPsnap_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnaprect\fP transforms the input N-body snapshot to a coordinate
system which diagonalizes the moment-of-inertia tensor of a specified
subset of particles (see keywords \fBweight\fP, \fBrcut\fP and \fBshell\fP
below). The centroid of the subset is translated to the
origin. As with \fIsnapkinem\fP(1NEMO), an arbitrary weighting may be
specified for each particle.
.PP
Iterative determinations of the axis ratio, using the moments of
inertia, have been implemented on an experimental basis.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBin=\fP\fIsnap_file\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap_file\fP, which must be in
\fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format.  Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIsnap_file\fP
Output data is written to \fIsnap_file\fP, in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO)
format.  Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBweight=\fP\fIbody_weight\fP
Expression used to compute the weight of each body.
See \fIbodytrans\fP(1NEMO) for the form of \fIbody_weight\fP.
Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBrcut=\fP\fIcutoff_radius\fP
If \fIcutoff_radius\fP is greater than zero, only particles within
\fIcutoff_radius\fP of the \fIbody_weight\fPed centroid will be used
to compute the moment-of-inertia.
Default: \fB0.0\fP.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime_range\fP
Only frames within \fItime_range\fP will be analyzed.  Default: \fBall\fP.
.TP
\fBshell\fP=\fIr_min,r_max\fP
Two \fIradii\fP are expected here. They define an ellipsoidal shell
within which the (modified) inertia tensor is computed and iterated.
Default: all particles.
.TP
\fBiters=\fP\fImax_iters\fP
Maximum number of iterations allowed in computing the inertia tensor
within a changing volume/shell. Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBtol=\fP\fImin_tol\fP
Minimum tolerance required to stop iterations.
[Default: \fB0.0001\fP]
.TP
\fBmodified=t|f\fP
Use modified inertia tensor? If set to true, the modified (normalized
w.r.t. the squared ellipsoidal radius from a previous iteraton) inertia
tensor is used instead of the regular one. Note that the \fIbody_weight\fP
is also applied. It only makes sense to use this option if
\fImax_iters\fP > 1. [Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBtest=\fP\fIsnap_file\fP
If a filename is given, it is expected to be a snapshot. The first
snapshot in this file is used to rectify all selected snapshots
from the inputfile. Default: none.
.SH BUGS
During iterations, the printed output contains momentary eigenvectors
and angles, not the cumulative ones.
.SH SEE ALSO
snapkinem(1NEMO), snapinert(1NEMO), snapplot(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.PP
Aguilar & Meritt (1990) - ApJ 354, 33. 	Using a fraction of the most bound particles
.PP
Katz (1991) ApJ 368, 325. Volume iterative tensor.
.PP
Dubinski & Carlberg (1991) ApJ 378, 496. Volume iterative modified tensor.
.PP
Kuijken & Dubinksi (1994) MN 269, 13. Shell iterative modified tensor.
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes, Peter Teuben
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
5-mar-89	original version?	JEB
4-jul-94	finally implemented test=, also output theta/phi of p.axes	PJT
24-jul-94	V1.4 experimental iters=, shell=	PJT
15-mar-02	V1.4d addded log= keyword	WD
.nf
