.TH SNAPSQUASH 1NEMO "28 July 2006"

.SH "NAME"
snapsquash \- squash a snapshot using Bosma's thesis recipe

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsnapsquash\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsnapsquash\fP squashes a snapshot according the the recipe given
in Bosma's thesis.  It is a toy model meant to operate on thin 
disks in the XY plane. To quote from Bosma (1978):
.PP
As a crude attempt to describe the velocity field of a galaxy with an
oval distortion we have made a simple kinematical model, based on a
suggestion by Dr. A. Toomre (note that this model was made in 1974,
before more elaborate, and physically better founded, models were
constructed by others. It should not be-taken too seriously; and is
only meant as a guideline to determine the geometry of the system).
.PP
Consider a circular orbit at radius r in the plane of the galaxy. We
deform this circle into an ellipse by stretching it along the x-axis
and squeezing it along the y-axis. The Cartesian co-ordinates (x, y)
of a point P on the circle transform to (x', y') with:
.nf
    x' = x*f       ;   y' = y/f
.fi
a is the semi-major axis of the ellipse, b is the semi-minor axis. The
circular velocity vector at P is (u, v) = (- Vc sin(phi), Vc cos(phi)),
with phi = arctan y / x and Vc the amplitude of the circular velocity
at radius r. We can eliminate phi and transform this vector also with
equations (1). Then we give the resulting ovals a constant pattern
speed Omegap, but we reduce the angular velocity at each mean radius
to compensate for this. We then have:
.nf
    u' = ....      ;  v' = ....
.fi
where r^2 = x^2f^2 + y^2/f^2 and Vc is taken at r.


.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input file name, a snapshot. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output file name,  a snapshot, no default.
.TP
\fBf=\fP
Factor to squash by. A number larger than 1 will stretch along the 
X axis, and squash the Y axis. [1.0]   
.TP
\fBomega=\fP
Pattern Speed [0.0].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP
Times to select snapshots from [all]  

.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example makes a velocity field of a squashed disk,
and creates a velocity field to view:
.nf

    mkdisk disk1 100000 rmax=2 mass=1
    snapsquash disk1 disk2 1.1 1
    snaprotate disk2 disk3 30,60 zx
    snapgrid disk3 ccd3 moment=-1
    ccdplot ccd3
    
.nf
or if you like NEMO's pipe method, it can be done in one line:
.nf

    mkdisk - 100000 rmax=2 mass=1 |\\
	snapsquash - - 1/1.1 1 |\\
	snaprotate - - 30,60 zy |\\
	snapgrid - bosma-vel.ccd moment=-1
    ccdplot bosma-vel.ccd
    nds9 bosma-vel.ccd

.fi
If you have ds9, the command \fInds9\fP will send this image into the ds9
display server.

This can be compared in the same projection with the f=1 case, or now leaving
out the programs and options we don't need anymore:

.nf

    mkdisk - 100000 rmax=2 mass=1 |\\
	snaprotate - - 60 y |\\
	snapgrid - bosma0-vel.ccd moment=-1
    ccdplot bosma0-vel.ccd
    nds9 bosma0-vel.ccd
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkdisk(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)

.SH "FILES"
NEMO/src/nbody/init	snapsquash.c

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
28-Jul-06	V1.0  Created	PJT/AB
23-oct-2021	adjusted example	PJT
.fi
