.TH SNAPCENTERS 1NEMO "20 May 2025"

.SH "NAME"
snapcenters \- Center position of a snapshot based on shrinking sphere method (Power2003)

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsnapcenters\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

\fBsnapcenters\fP estimates the center of a snapshot
(\fIfollowing the discussion in Power et al. (2003)\fP)
using an iterative technique in
which the center of mass of particles within a shrinking sphere is
computed recursively until a convergence criterion is met. At each
step of the iteration, the center of the sphere is reset to the last
computed barycentre and the radius of the sphere is reduced by 2.5 per
cent. The iteration is stopped when a specified number of particles
(typically either 1000 particles or 1 per cent of the particles within
the high-resolution region, whichever is smaller) is reached within
the sphere.
.PP
Halo centers identified with this procedure are quite independent of
the parameters chosen to initiate the iteration, provided that the
initial sphere is large enough to encompass a large fraction of the
system. In a multi-component system, such as a dark halo with
substructure, this procedure isolates the densest region within the
largest subcomponent. In more regular systems, the centre so obtained
is in good agreement with centres obtained by weighing the centre of
mass by the local density or gravitational potential of each
particle. We have explicitly checked that none of the results
presented here are biased by our particular choice of centering
procedure. \fIend-quote\fP.
.PP
For \fBsnapcenters\fP an additional weight-factor can be applied
to each particle. See also \fIsnapcenter(1NEMO)\fP and
\fIsnapcenterp(1NEMO)\fP for alternative approaches. In the examples
of \fIhackdens(1NEMO)\fP a table compares the different approaches.
.PP
Convergence can be sped up by using a larger shrinking factor (the default
is only 2.5%), by setting a finite tolerance on the centering (eta=),
since the default is 0, or by increasing the minimum number of particles
via fn=.


.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input snapshot file name, containing one or more snapshots.
.br
No default
.TP
\fBout=\fP
output snapshot file name 
.br
No default
.TP
\fBweight=\fP
weight factor used finding center
.br
[m]  
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP
range of times to process
.br
[all]  
.TP
\fBreport=\fP
report the center (in addition to some convergence paramters, see below)
.br
[f]    
.TP
\fBeta=\fP
Optional additional convergence stop criterion in position. Unless relaxed tolerance is allowed,
it''s best to leave \fBeta=0\fP (the default).
.br
[0] 
.TP
\fBshrink=\fP
Reduction fraction for the rmax sphere per iteration
.br
[0.025] 
.TP
\fBiter=\fP
Maximum number of iterations to use
.br
[20] 
.TP
\fBcenter=\fP
Initial estimate for the center. If the true center is not within
\fBrmax\fP of \fBcenter\fP, it is unlikely the center will be found.
.br
[0,0,0]  
.TP
\fBfn=\fP
Minimum fraction of particles needed in shrinking rmax area. It is adviced
to keep at least 1%. If a value > 1 is given, it is assumed to be the number
of particles instead.
.br
[0.01]
.TP
\fBrmax=\fP
Initial radius to shrink from, should be a good size fraction of the system size.
.br
[10]  
.TP
\fBone=\fP
Only output COM as a snapshot?
.br
[not implemented]

.SH "CONVERGENCE"

For each iteration the radius is shrunk, and if convergence is reached,
it is reported. E.g.

.EX

% mkplummer - 2000 seed=123 | snapcenters -  . report=t 
2 19 3.77354 1940   -0.005382 0.028057 0.020065 

Printed are: convergence reason, #iters, rmax, nleft, xcenter, ycenter, zcenter

  convergence reason:
  0 - unexpected convergence (should never occur)
  1 - eta was reached. By setting eta=0 [the default] this should never happen
  2 - iteration max was reached
  3 - nmin was reached (the goal of Power2003)
  4 - number in shrinking sphere hasn't changed (not tested for, should rarely occur)

.EE

.SH "CAVEATS"
Searching is done in Pos space using rmax, there is no eqv. vmax search.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
An example of shifting a Plummer sphere and playing with the essential parameters to find the center:
.EX

$ mkplummer - 10000 | snapshift - - 5,0,0 | snapcenters -  . report=t shrink=0.3 fn=0.1 rmax=20

.EE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapcenterp(1NEMO), snapcenter(1NEMO), bodytrans(3NEMO), hackdens(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.nf
Power et al (2003) - 2003MNRAS.338...14P - shrinking sphere method, S2.5
.fi

.SH "FILES"
NEMO/src/nbody/trans/snapcenters.c

.SH "ADS"
@ads 2003MNRAS.338...14P 


.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.25i +4.5i
16-may-2025	0.1 Drafted 	PJT
19-may-2025	0.4 renamed keywords to shrink= and fn=		PJT
.fi
