.TH SNAPVIRIAL 1NEMO "18 July 2012"
.SH NAME
snapvirial \- scale snapshots while retaining or setting virial ratio
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapvirial in=\fIin_file\fP \fBout=\fIout_file\fP [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapvirial\fP copies an N-body system from \fBin\fP to \fBout\fP,
scaling particle qantities such that the virial ratio is either
retained or gets a specified value. For a more manual rescale use
\fIsnapscale(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
The input snapshot must not only contain masses and phase space
information, but also potential, as to make the rescaling computation
a linear operation. Depending on accuracy needed, a general algorithm as
in \fIhackforce(1NEMO)\fP can be used to add potentials and forces 
to a snapshot.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized:
.TP 24
\fBin=\fIin_file\fP
input file, in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format.  Default: none.
.TP
\fBout=\fIout_file\fP
output file, also \fIsnapshot\fP format.  If none supplied, the 
current virial ratio is reported, 1 being the ideal virialized case.
.TP
\fBmscale=\fIbool\fP
Scale the masses? [default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBrscale=\fIbool\fP
Scale the positions? [default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBvscale=\fIbool\fP
Scale the velocities? [default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fItime-ranges\fP
Only snapshots with time values within \fItimes-ranges\fP, which is
of the form \fBts[:te],...\fP, will be scaled and 
copied. [default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBvirial=\fP\fIpositive ratio\fP
Virial ratio (must be non-negative) to be obtained - rescaling is done
such that a virial ratio of |2T/W| is obtained. If no value is given,
the old virial ratio is retained [default: not used].
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapscale(1NEMO), hackforce(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), units(5NEMO)
.SH BUGS
It is considered an error when either the potential energy is
positive or the kinetic energy is negative. This usually requires the
snapshot to be in the center of mass frame. Use \fIsnapcenter(1NEMO)\fP
if need be. 
.PP
This program has no intelligence about the shape of the system, and hence
does a simple rescaling of the required quantities. 
It thus works quite well for spherical galaxies.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/nbody/trans   	snapvirial.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
12-March-89	V1.0: created          	PJT
 6-apr-89	V1.1: added keywords 2t/w (bug?)	PJT
11-aug-89	V1.2: mscale added and logic improved       PJT
29-oct-90	V1.3: fixed decision bug	PJT
11-nov-91	V1.3a: man page clarifications	PJT
18-jul-2012	V2.0:  reporting mode when out= left blank	PJT
.fi


