.TH SNAPENTER 1NEMO "30 June 2025"

.SH "NAME"
snapenter \- enter an N-body snapshot interactively into a file

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsnapenter\fP [\fBout=\fPsnapfile] [\fBnbody=\fPnbody]
[\fBtime=\fPtime] [\fBheadline=\fPstring]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fIsnapenter\fP interactively prompts the user for the basic data
describing an N-body snapshot: masses, positions and velocities of each
particles.
The data are written into a file
\fIsnap-file\fP, in standard N-body \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. 
If not provided on the command line, \fIsnapenter\fP will prompt for
the name of \fIsnap-file\fP and \fInbody\fP, the number of particles.
.PP
To still enter snapshots interactively, but for a larger amount
of bodies, the ``205'' format (see \fIatos(1NEMO)\fP) can be used.
An ascii file with masses, positions and velocities can be created
with an editor, and \fIatos(1NEMO)\fP is used to convert this file
to a proper snapshot(5NEM0) file. 
.PP
The program \fItabtos(1NEMO)\fP is probably more flexible even.
.PP
Coordinates are not transformed to the center-of-mass coordinate system,
for this the program \fIsnapcenter(1NEMO)\fP needs to be used.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 25
\fBout=\fP\fIsnap-file\fP
Output data is written into \fIsnap-file\fP, in standard snapshot format.
.br
By default the user is prompted for the filename.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fInbody\fP
Number of particles \fInbody\fP in Nbody snapshot. 
.br
By default the user is prompted for the number of bodies.q
.TP
\fBtime=\fP\fItime\fP
Time at which the snapshot applies
.br
Default: \fItime\fP=0.0.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP\fIstring\fP
Optional headline, which is written as the first item in the snapshot
file, the next item being the snapshot itself.
.br
Default: no headline
.TP
\fBverbose=t|f\fP
In interactive mode you should set this to \fBtrue\fP, but in a case 
\fBsnapenter\fP was used in a pipe (see EXAMPLE below), it cuts down
a large number of messages.
.br
Default: \fBfalse\fP]

.SH "EXAMPLE"
A cleverly formatted ASCII table can also be piped into snapenter,
if they only contain masses, positions and velocities in the following
format:
.EX

  N
  m1 x1 y1 z1 vx1 vy1 vz1
  m2 x2 y2 z2 vx2 vy2 vz2
  ...
  mN xN yN zN vxN vyN vzN

.EE
where the first number, N, is the number of particles. If that is not
available in the file, specify it via the commandline as \fBnbody=\fP.
.PP
This also happens to be the output of \fIsnapprint(1NEMO)\fP with the following options
.EX
     snapprint options=m,x,y,z,vx,vy,vz header=nbody
.EE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
atos(1NEMO), tabtos(1NEMO), snapprint(1NEMO), snapcenter(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Piet Hut

.SH "FILES"
.nf
.ta +2.0i
~/src/nbody/init	snapenter.c
.fi

.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.25i +4.5i
28-Nov-86	V1.0: created         	PIET
23-Apr-87	V1.1: created         	PIET
10-Jun-88	V1.2: created         	PIET
10-jul-89	V2.0: updated for new filestruct()	PJT
21-nov-90	V2.1: some defaults changed, NEMO 2.x	PJT
24-mar-94	added verbose= and the example	PJT
.fi
