.TH SNAPCMPHIST 1NEMO "15 April 2004"
.SH NAME
snapcmphist \- compare two N-body snapshots and plot histogram
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapcmphist in1=\fPsnap_file \fBin2=\fPsnap_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapcmphist\fP like \fIsnapcmp\fP(1NEMO) is a flexible tool for
comparing two N-body snapshots on a particle by particle basis, but
\fIsnapcmphist\fP plots a histogram of the resulting values.  An
arbitrary ``observable'' defined in terms of the basic components of a
\fIbody\fP(3NEMO) may be specified for the comparison.  Particles are
compared by differencing their observables, or by computing the
observable applied to a differenced particle.  These options cover
most of the common methods of comparing N-body snapshots.  The
default settings compute the magnitude of the configuration-space
displacements between each pair of particles.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBin1=\fP\fIsnap_file1\fP
.TP
\fBin2=\fP\fIsnap_file2\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap_file1\fP and \fIsnap_file2\fP, which
must be in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format.  Default: none.
.TP
\fBtime1=\fP\fItime_range1\fP
.TP
\fBtime2=\fP\fItime_range2\fP
Data with time values within \fItime_range1\fP and \fItime_range2\fP
will be read from \fIsnap_file1\fP and \fIsnap_file2\fP, respectively.
At present only the first pair of frames within these ranges will be
analyzed.  Default: \fB"all"\fP, which has the effect of using the
first pair of frames in the files.
.TP
\fBobs=\fP\fIobs_expression\fP
\fIobs_expression\fP is the observable used to compare the particles.
See \fIbodytrans\fP(1NEMO) for the form of \fIobs_expression\fP.
Default: \fBr\fP, which compares the positions of particles.
.TP
\fBdiffpart=\fP\fIflag\fP
If \fIflag\fP is true, particles are compared by subtracting the
components of one from the components of the other, and evaluating the
observable \fBobs\fP on this ``differenced particle''. Otherwise,
\fBobs\fP is evaluated for each particle, and the results are
differenced.  Default: \fBtrue\fP.
.TP
\fBrelative\fP\fI=flag\fP
If \fIflag\fP is true, the differenced observable is divided by the
value of \fBobs\fP computed from the particle in \fIsnap_file1\fP.
Otherwise, the differenced observable is used.  Default: \fBfalse\fP.
.TP
\fBnbins=\fP\fInum_bins\fP
Number of equally-spaced bins to use for histogram.  Default: \fB8\fP.
.TP
\fBxrange=\fP\fIx_axis_range\fP
Range of values covered by histogram; of the form \fIlow:high\fP.
Default: \fB0.0:1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBxlabel=\fP\fIx_axis_label\fP
Label for x-axis.  Default is \fIobs_expression\fP.
.TP
\fBnxticks=\fP\fInum_x_ticks\fP
Number of equally-spaced tickmarks along x-axis.  Default: \fB3\fP.
.TP
\fBymax=\fP\fImax_y_value\fP
If specified, use as max value on vertical axis; if not, program uses
highest histogram bin to pic scaling.  Default: \fInone\fP.
.TP
\fBylabel=\fP\fIy_axis_label\fP
Label for y-axis.  Default: \fBN\fP.
.TP
\fBnyticks=\fP\fInum_y_ticks\fP
Number of equally-spaced tickmarks along y-axis.  Default: \fB3\fP.
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
Verbiage at the top right of the graph. Default: none.
.SH SEE ALSO
snapcmp(1NEMO), snapdiff(1NEMO), bodytrans(3NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes.
