.TH SNAPSCALE 1NEMO "19 October 1999"
.SH NAME
snapscale \- re-scale an N-body system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapscale in=\fIin_file\fP \fBout=\fIout_file\fP [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapscale\fP copies an N-body system from \fBin\fP to \fBout\fP,
multiplying various components of the snapshot by their respective
scale factors. All scalings are done independantly, the scalefactors
have to be supplied explicitly. For example, if positions are scaled,
velocities are not (unless specified of course), and are treated as
independant. The default for all scale factors is 1.
.PP
For that matter \fIsnapscale\fP is not an intelligent program. 
One could set it up with default not supplied (empty keywords), and let
the program figure out how to rescale all available items in the snapshot
if e.g. only masses are scaled, and virial units are to be effective, the
radii and/or velocities will also be appropriately scaled.
These features are implemented in \fIsnapvirial\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized:
.TP 24
\fBin=\fIin_file\fP
input file, in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format.  Default: none.
.TP
\fBout=\fIout_file\fP
output file,  also \fIsnapshot\fP format.  Default: none.
.TP
\fBmscale=\fIm_scale_factor\fP
Scale factor for particle masses.  Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBrscale=\fIpos_scale_factor(s)\fP
Scale factor for position space. If three numbers are given, the
three positions are scaled independantly.  One number means
all NDIM (three or two) coordinates are transformed the same.
Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBvscale=\fIvel_scale_factor(s)\fP
Scale factor for velocity space.  If three numbers are given, the
three velocities are scaled independantly. One number means
all NDIM (three or two) coordinates are transformed the same.
Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBpscale=\fIphi_scale_factor\fP
Scale factor for particle potentials.  Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBascale=\fIacc_scale_factor(s)\fP
Scale factor for accelerations.  If three numbers are given, the
three accelerations are scaled independantly. One number means
all NDIM (three or two) coordinates are transformed the same.
Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBxscale=\fIaux_scale_factor\fP
Scale factor for the auxilliary information item, if present.  
Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBkscale=\fIkey_scale_factor\fP
Scale factor for the key item.  Note that this item must
be an integer. Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fItime-ranges\fP
Only snapshots with time values within \fItimes-ranges\fP, which is
of the form \fBts[:te],...\fP, will be 
copied. [default: \fBall\fP].
.SH EXAMPLES
For a given axisymmetric disk with all particles on circular orbits
squashing the orbits a bit would give a reasonable approximation for
elliptical orbits, say by 10%:
.nf
    set e=1.1
    snapscale in=mod.axi out=mod.ell "rscale=sqrt($e),1/sqrt($e),1" \\
        "vscale=$e,1/$e,1"
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapvirial(1NEMO), snapshift(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes, Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/pjt/nbody   	snapscale.c snapscale.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
 7-May-87	V1.0: created          	PJT
16-Nov-87	V1.1: mass added	PJT
9-Mar-88	V1.2: data history added, proper debug output	PJT
16-Mar-88	V1.0 at IAS by Josh	JEB
1-Jun-88	V2.0: merged PJT extensions into JEB's code	PJT
24-aug-88	V2.1: added pscale keyword	PJT
15-aug-89	V2.4: added pscale,ascale,xscale,kscale  	PJT
19-oct-99	doc improved	PJT
.fi


