.TH SNAPGRID 1NEMO "14 February 2013"
.SH NAME
snapgrid \- grid a snapshot into a 2D or 3D image (cube), with optional moments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBsnapgrid in=\fPsnapshot \fBout=\fPimage [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapgrid\fP grids three arbitrary \fIbodytrans(3NEMO)\fP expressions 
(default: \fBx\fP, \fBy\fP and \fB-vz\fP) of a snapshot into a 2D or 3D
\fIimage(5NEMO)\fP dataset, with optional astronomical projection for direct
comparision with astronomical images.
.PP
The X and Y coordinates of the datacube can only
be regularly gridded in histogram fashion 
(for spatial XY-smoothing see \fIccdsmooth(1NEMO)\fP, for interpolating
see also \fIsnapmap(1NEMO)\fP),
however the Z coordinate has the property that it can take moments in this
variable, pick a number of planes or planes with smoothing.
.PP
The output image is written in standard \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format, 
and can be accessed by various other programs for smoothing, display etc.
.PP 
Although \fIsnapgrid(1NEMO)\fP can grid datacubes (e.g. X-Y-Z), 
\fIsnapgridsmooth(1NEMO)\fP is probably easier to use, 
since it does not integrate along any lines of sight, whereas this
program is more suited for taking moments along the 3rd axis.
.PP
For images that require more accurate interpolation, instead of
this histogramming approach, use \fIsnapmap(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
For a related program that creates images (and can create movies as well),
see \fIuns_2dplot(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
As of V6.0 the units in 3D cubes will be particle density. This ensures
that programs such as \fIccdmom(1NEMO)\fP and \fIccdstat(1NEMO)\fP give
the proper answer in their summed emission.
.PP
In the \fByt\fP package such images are called \fIphase plot\fP, where a 2D grid 
in field1 (\fBxvar=\fP) and field2 (\fByvar=\fP) is computed, with 
some statistic (\fBmom=\fP) on field3 (\fBevar=\fP).
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, must be in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. Multiple snapshots can
be stacked uses the \fBtimes=\fP keyword: see \fBstack=\fP below.  [no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, will be in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format [no default].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fIt1:t2,t3,..\fP
Selection of the times of snapshots to be selected for gridding.
For \fBstack=t\fP all snapshots will be co-added into one image,
however selecting \fBstack=f\fP or selecting multiple \fBevar\fP's
one can request multiple output images.
[Default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBxrange=\fIxb:xe\fP
Range in \fBxvar\fP to bin, the coordinates are allowed to decrease as well as increase.
 [default: \fB-2:2\fP].
.TP
\fByrange=\fIxb:xe\fP
Range in \fByvar\fP to bin [default: \fB-2:2\fP].
.TP
\fBzrange=\fIxb:xe\fP
Range in \fBzvar\fP to bin, or take moments of
[default: \fB-infinity:infinity\fP].
.TP
\fBxvar=\fP\fIx-expression\fP
The value of \fIx-expression\fP is gridded along the X axis.
[default: \fBx\fP].
.TP
\fByvar=\fP\fIy-expression\fP
The value of \fIy-expression\fP is gridded along the Y axis.
[default: \fBy\fP].
.TP
\fBzvar=\fP\fIz-expression\fP
The value of \fIz-expression\fP is gridded along the Z axis (\fBnz\fP>1), 
or moments taken off (\fBnz=1\fP). [default: \fB-vz\fP].
.TP
\fBevar=\fIemissivity\fP
Variable to denote emissivity per particle. You can select more than 1
expression, in which case different images will be written out
(only in \fBstack=f\fP mode)
[default: \fBm\fP].
.TP
\fBtvar=\fItau\fP
Variable to denote the optical depth of a particle. [Default: 0]
.TP
\fBdvar=\fIdepth\fP
Variable to denote the line of sight. [Default: z]
.TP
\fBsvar=\fIsmoothing\fP
Variable to denote gaussian smoothing  Note this is the
gaussian sigma, not the FWHM (FMHW = 2.355 * sigma).
.TP
\fBnx=\fIx-pixels\fP
Number of pixels along the X axis of the cube [default: \fB64\fP].
.TP
\fBny=\fIy-pixels\fP
Number of pixels along the Y axis of the cube [default: \fB64\fP].
.TP
\fBnz=\fIz-pixels\fP
Number of pixels along the Z axis of the cube. If one pixel is choosen,
moments can be taken (see below), else a simple gridding is used.
[default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBxlab=\fIx-label\fP
Text used to label the X-axis. By default the \fBxvar\fP expression is used.
It may be useful in certain astronomical environment to label the axis
with recognized labels like RA---TAN, DEC--SIN, GLON etc.
.TP
\fBylab=\fIy-label\fP
Same for the Y-axis.
.TP
\fBzlab=\fIz-label\fP
Same for the Z-axis.
.TP
\fBmoment=\fInumber\fP
Order of the Z-gridding.
Most commonly choosen are: \fB0\fP (total intensity), \fB1\fP 
(velocity zvar weighted intensity) and \fB2\fP (velocity square weighted intensity),
where 'intensity' should really be read as surface density per 
square unit length. Special values of \fB-1\fP and \fB-2\fP can be
used to directly compute the \fIevar\fP weighted
mean and the dispersion from the mean.
\fB-3\fP and \fB-4\fP are used to compute the gaussian-hermitian h3 and h4 moments
(see e.g. van der Marel & Franx, 1993)
[default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBmean=t|f\fP
Should the \fIemission\fP in a cell be averaged?
This also controls the units of the gridding. For \fBmean=f\fP (the default) a
\fIsurface-density\fP is computed (emission per square length),
 whereas for \fBmean=t\fP the average per
pixel (or voxel) is computed of the units of emission. Another way of looking 
at this, \fBmean=t\fP is for interpolating maps (see also \fIsnapmap(1NEMO)\fP),
where as \fBmean=f\fP is for splatting information as if this was observed.
[Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBstack=t|f\fP
Should all snapshots from the input file be stacked, or write one
image per selected (see \fBtimes=\fP) time? [default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBintegrate=t|f\fP
If selected, instead of summing points along the \fIzvar\fP, they
are sorted and integrated along \fIdvar\fP. This is appropriate
when emission represents something like a density, instead of a mass,
and a total column density is needed. 
** This option can only compute 2D moment=0 maps 
and also cannot handle stacked snapshots yet **
[default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBproj=\fP
If a valid projection type (SIN, TAN, ARC, NCP, GLS, MER, AIT)
but see also \fIwcs(1NEMO)\fP, the input coordinates are interpreted
in angular degrees, and griddes with the appropriate sky projection.
Default: no sky projection.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example makes three moment images from an N-body snapshot,
then smooths
and combines them into an 'intensity' (\fBint\fP), 'mean velocity' (\fBvel\fP)
and 'velocity dispersion' (\fBsig\fP) map using a CCD math operator.
.PP
Note that the moment maps must be smoothed \fIbefore\fP they
can be combined to the proper velocity and dispersion maps.
.nf
   % \fBsnapgrid in=nbody.dat out=map0 moment=0\fP
   % \fBsnapgrid in=nbody.dat out=map1 moment=1\fP
   % \fBsnapgrid in=nbody.dat out=map2 moment=2\fP
   % \fBccdsmooth in=map0 out=map00 gauss=0.1\fP
   % \fBccdsmooth in=map1 out=map11 gauss=0.1\fP
   % \fBccdsmooth in=map2 out=map22 gauss=0.1\fP
   % \fBmv map00 int\fP
   % \fBccdmath in=int,map11     out=vel  fie=%2/%1\fP
   % \fBccdmath in=int,vel,map22 out=sig  fie="sqrt(%3/%1-%2*%2)"\fP
   % \fBrm map11 map22\fP
.fi
Alternatively, with the option of using negative \fBmoment\fPs, one can
also use (assuming no smoothing implemented):
.nf
    % \fBsnapgrid in=nbody.dat out=int moment=0\fP
    % \fBsnapgrid in=nbody.dat out=vel moment=-1\fP
    % \fBsnapgrid in=nbody.dat out=sig moment=-2\fP
.fi
Consider now the situation where a coordinate is regularly sampled,
with N values between A and B. In order to grid these, one would
normally use a range=A-dx/2:B+dx/2, where dx=(B-A)/(N-1).  One
can also make a grid with N cells with emission, 
and K blank cells between
each valued cell (K would be typically small, perhaps 1 or 2). With
NK=(K+1)N-K and dx=(B-A)/(NK-1), a
range=A-dx/2:B+dx/2 is used.  If this is done
in both the X and Y dimension, the program
\fIccdintpol(1NEMO)\fP can be used to create a bi-linearly
interpolated grid with more pixels for a seemingly higher
sampled map. Most likely the option \fBmean=t\fP will have
to be used to conserve units between runs with different
values of K.
.PP
Here is an example of making a gridded map of ungridded data. Both
unweighted, and weighted. Suppose the snapshot has the weights stored
in the \fIAux\fP field, and we use these as weights
(i.e. sum(mass*Aux)/sum(Aux) would be the quantity of interest).
The unweighted average uses the \fBmean=t\fP key:
.nf
    snapgrid ... out=map0 evar=m mean=t
.fi
but the weighted average computes the two maps seperately and uses
\fIccdmath(1NEMO)\fP to divide them to get the desired result:
.nf
    snapgrid ... out=map1 evar='m*aux' 
    snapgrid ... out=map2 evar='aux' 
    ccdmath in=map1,map2 out=map3 fie="ifeq(%2,0,0,%1/%2)"
.fi
with an additional safeguard to set cells to 0 if no emission with
found in them.
.SH KINEMETRY
Krajnovic et al. (2006) popularized kinemetry, a description of line of sight
velocities in terms of the first four moments (v, sigma, h3 and h4). The following
example shows how to create these maps with \fBsnapgrid\fP:
.nf
  % snapgrid ...
.fi
.SH UNITS
Units are maintained in the same way as in snapshots, they don't have
a specific name, but carry their normal meaning 'length', 'velocity'
and 'mass'. Since \fIsnapgrid\fP calculates (surface/space) densities,
its units are formally 'mass' per square 'length' times 'velocity'
to the power \fBmoment\fP. Notice the \fBmean=\fP keyword,
which prevents division by the cellsize.
.PP
When channel maps are produced (\fBmoment=0\fP), 
the data are not normalized w.r.t. the
convolving velocity beam. For a rectangular beam (\fBvrange=vmin:vmax\fP)
the data should formally be divided by \fB(vmax-vmin)\fP, for a 
gaussian beam (\fBvrange=vmean,vsig\fP) by \fBvsig*sqrt(2*pi)\fP.
Also remember that a gaussian beam has \fBFWHM = 2.355*sigma\fP.
.PP
Although \fIsnapscale(1NEMO)\fP can also be used, after a snapshot has
been gridded into a map/cube, \fIccdsky(1NEMO)\fP can optionally be
used to rescale a cube in astronomical units (degrees and m/s) such 
that exported FITS files can be compared directly with model generated
FITS files.
.SH BUGS
Combinations of large snapshots and large images may run into memory
problems since both the snapshot and the image(s) must fit into memory
to obtain turbo speeds. Use non-negative \fBmoment\fPs to avoid
having to allocate one or two extra images in addition to the
snapshot and the image. 
.PP
Sky projections do not guarantee flux conservation. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapgridsmooth(1NEMO), snapmap(1NEMO),
snaprotate(1NEMO), snapslit(1NEMO), snapifu(1NEMO), snapsmooth(1NEMO), uns_2dplot(1NEMO), snapaxsym(1NEMO), wcs(1NEMO),
tsf(1NEMO), snapccd(1NEMO), ccdintpol(1NEMO), ccdsky(1NEMO), image(5NEMO), 
.PP
http://www.iinet.com.au/~watson/nngridr.html
.PP
http://www.ncarg.ucar.edu//ngmath/natgrid/nnhome.html (based on NNGRIDR)
.PP
http://tdc-www.harvard.edu/software/skypic/
.PP
http://dipastro.pd.astro.it/~cosmo/Splotch/
.PP
KinMSpy  https://github.com/TimothyADavis/KinMSpy
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
src/nbody/image  	snapgrid.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
19-jan-89	V1.0: Created	PJT
12-mar-89	V1.1: added emisitivity evar	PJT
2-nov-90	V2.0: allow stacked snapshots	PJT
21-oct-91	V3.0: moment -1,-2 implemented	PJT
12-jun-92	V3.1: added times=	PJT
18-jul-92	V3.2: fixed bug when moment<0 and stacked snapshots	PJT
30-jul-93	V4.0: allow multiple  evar's - default is now stack=f	PJT
18-jun-98	V4.4: added xlab/ylab/zlab and allow range[0]>range[1]	PJT
8-may-04	V5.0: added proj= to optionallaly allow sky projections	PJT
7-feb-06	V5.1: added integrate=t to deal with 3D density points	PJT
2-mar-11	V5.3: moment -3,-4 implemented	PJT
18-may-12	V5.4: added smoothing in VZ (szvar)
14-feb-13	V6.0: units changed on a cube (now xyz-density instead of xy-surface brightness)	PJT
.fi 
