.TH SNAPSORT 1NEMO "21 December 1992"
.SH NAME
snapsort \- sort particles of an N-body snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapsort in=\fPin_file \fBout=\fPout_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapsort\fP sorts the bodies of a snapshot by a user-specified
ranking. Optionally, a different sort engine can be invoked.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBin=\fP\fIin_file\fP
Input data is read from \fIin_file\fP, which must be in
\fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format.  Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIout_file\fP
Sorted output data is written to \fIout_file\fP. No default.
.TP
\fBrank=\fP\fIbody_rank\fP
Expression used to compute the rank of each body.
See \fIbodytrans\fP(1NEMO) for the form of \fIbody_rank\fP.
Default: \fBetot\fP.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime_range\fP
Only frames within \fItime_range\fP will be sorted.  Default: \fBall\fP.
.TP
\fBsort=\fP\fIsort_engine\fP
Select the sort engine to use. Sorry, no minimum match here. 
If the code has been compiled with 
standard the flogger software (see $NEMO/usr/lib/sort), a number
of sort engines are available (see below).
Else, only the standard \fIqsort(3)\fP
is available. Default: [\fBqsort\fP].
.SH SORT ENGINES
The default UNIX engine \fIqsort\fP (a quick sort) is always available.
If your friendly NEMO manager has compiled in a number of additional
ones, the following list may be a complete one: (to get your
current local list, run \fIsnapsort\fP with \fIdebug=1\fP, which will
display the names it's trying. Use some foolish name for \fIsort=\fP
to get it to display all of them, and then fail.
.nf
.ta +1i

  \fIsort=\fP	\fIcomments\fP

  qsort       	Standard UNIX \fIsqort(3)\fP

  bubble      	any 1st semester course in CS
  heap     	contributed by der Mouse
  insert 	insertion sort, any 1st semester course in CS
  merge     	roughly patterned after Knuth Vol. 3
  quick       	C.A.R. Hoare's recursive sort as given in K&R 2 pg 87
  shell       	D.L. Shell as given in K&R 2 pg 62

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
snapshot(5NEMO), qsort(3)
.PP
msort(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes.
.SH FILES
~src/nbody/trans/snapsort.c	program code
~usr/lib/sort/*_sort.c     	additional sort routines; 
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
2-jun-88	V1.0 original version      	JEB
21-dec-92	V1.4 selectable sort engine (sort=)	PJT
.fi
