.TH SNAPCMP 1NEMO "16 July 2009"
.SH NAME
snapcmp \- compare two N-body snapshots
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapcmp in1=\fPsnap_file \fBin2=\fPsnap_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapcmp\fP is a flexible tool for comparing two N-body snapshots on
a particle by particle basis.  An arbitrary ``observable'' defined in
terms of the basic components of a \fIbody\fP(3NEMO) may be specified
for the comparison.  Particles are compared by differencing their
observables, or by computing the observable applied to a differenced
particle.  These options cover most of the common methods of comparing
N-body snapshots.  The default settings compute the magnitude of the
configuration-space displacements between each pair of particles.  
.PP
The program simply outputs eight numbers: time of the first snapshot,
are the minimum, lower quartile, median, upper quartile, 
maximum of the measured differences, and the mean and dispersion of the distribution.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBin1=\fP\fIsnap_file1\fP
.TP
\fBin2=\fP\fIsnap_file2\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap_file1\fP and \fIsnap_file2\fP, which
must be in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format.  Default: none.
.TP
\fBtime1=\fP\fItime_range1\fP
.TP
\fBtime2=\fP\fItime_range2\fP
Data with time values within \fItime_range1\fP and \fItime_range2\fP
will be read from \fIsnap_file1\fP and \fIsnap_file2\fP, respectively.
[Default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBobs=\fP\fIobs_expression\fP
\fIobs_expression\fP is the observable used to compare the particles.
See \fIbodytrans\fP(1NEMO) for the form of \fIobs_expression\fP.
Default: \fBr\fP, which compares the positions of particles.
.TP
\fBdiffpart=\fP\fIflag\fP
If \fIflag\fP is true, particles are compared by subtracting the
components of one from the components of the other, and evaluating the
observable \fBobs\fP on this ``differenced particle''. Otherwise,
\fBobs\fP is evaluated for each particle, and the results are
differenced.  Default: \fBtrue\fP.
.TP
\fBrelative\fP\fI=flag\fP
If \fIflag\fP is true, the differenced observable is divided by the
value of \fBobs\fP computed from the particle in \fIsnap_file1\fP.
Otherwise, the differenced observable is used.  Default: \fBfalse\fP.
.TP
\fBlog=t|f\fP
Show (10-base) logarithms of the values instead of their linear values
Default: false.
.SH SEE ALSO
snapcmphist(1NEMO), snapdiff(1NEMO), bodytrans(3NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
.nf
src/nbody/reduc/snapcmp.c      source code for snapcmp, snapcmphist and snapcmpplot
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes.
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
23-may-88	V1.0 created?	Josh
29-mar-94	V1.3 added time to output	Peter
15-apr-04	V1.5 added headline= to the plotting versions and  mean,sigma  to the output	PJT
16-jul-09	V1.6 added log=	PJT
.fi
