.TH SNAPINERT 1NEMO "25 June 1994"
.SH NAME
snapinert \- calculate  momentum of inertia of a snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBsnapinert in=\fPsnapshot \fBout=\fPout-file [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnapinert\fP calculates the momentum of inertia of a snapshot.
The output is ASCII and consists of three parts:

1) Time

2) Moment of inertia tensor

3) Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors of (2).

.PP
The program \fIsnapkinem(1NEMO)\fP does similar things - ideas
should be combined.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, must be in \fISnapShot(5)\fP format [no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, ASCII format [no default]
.TP
\fBtimes=\fItime-range\fP
Only data frames  with  time  values
within  \fItime-range\fP,  which is of the
form, eg, "1.0:1.5,2.5,3.0", will be
translated.
[default: all].
.TP
\fBweight\fP=\fIexpression\fP
The value of \fIexpression\fP is  used  to
compute the center of the coordinate and also the momentum of inertia.
\fIexpression\fP is
a real-valued C language  expression
over  the  real  values x, y, z, vx,
vy, vz, phi, m, t, and  the  integer
value i.  [default : 1]
.TP
\fBper_weight=\fIt|f\fP
Logical if the result is  weight-normalized. [default: t].
.TP
\fBtab=\fIt|f\fP
Usually \fBsnapinert\fP gives the result in a (barely) human-readable format.
This option forces all values printed in one line, so that other programs
such as MONGO, TABMATH(NEMO1) and AWK can easily access it.
[default: f].
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapkinem(1NEMO), snaprect(1NEMO), bodytrans(3NEMO)
.SH BUGS
From some reasons the source library of the "Numerical Recipes in C"
is required to compile \fBsnapinert\fP. Since the standard NEMO package
does not include the Numerical Recipes, on sites that does not have
the sources of Numerical Recipes \fBsnapinert\fP cannot be compiled.
The \fIMakefile\fP assumes the source library to exist in $NUMRECPATH.
.SH AUTHOR
Jun Makino
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
30-Jun-88	V1.0: Created	JM
7-jul-89	V1.2: get_snap(), oneline= keyword is now tab= 	PJT
.fi
