.TH SNAPTRANS 1NEMO "2 November 1994"
.SH NAME
snaptrans \- coordinate transformations of a snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnaptrans\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnaptrans\fP will perform various coordinate transformations 
on a snapshot.
.PP
Currently one can only transform \fI(cart,sph)\fP 
and \fI(cart,cyl)\fP in the default coordinate ordening:
.nf
.ta +1i
cart	x,y,z
cyl	rad,phi,z
sph	rad,phi,theta
.fi
Future enhancements will allow anything to anything, including reordering
the coordinates.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input snapshot filename      (no default)
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output snapshot filename     (no default)
.TP
\fBctypei=\fP
Input coordinate system. Any of: \fIcart, sph, cyl\fP can be given.
.TP
\fBctypeo=\fP
Output coordinate system. See previous keyword.
.TP
\fBprojpi=\fP
Input projection parameters, if needed. Default: none provided.
.TP
\fBprojpo=\fP
Output projection parameters, if needed. Default: none provided.
.TP
\fBscale=\fP
Items to scale (phase,pos,vel,acc). By default all position related
vectors are transformed, but you can select a subset this way.
.TP
\fBndim=\fP
Force dimensionality, if it can be overriden. Default: NDIM, as compiled
with the program.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fIt1:t2,t3:t4,...\fP
Times to select snapshots from. A series of ranges can be given.
Default: all.
.SH BUGS
After a snapshot has been converted to anything else but cartesian,
selection of body variables (e.g. see \fIbodytrans(1NEMO)\fP) is still
by their cartesian names, \fBx, vx, ax, y\fP etc.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH SEE ALSO
snapscale(1NEMO)
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
2-nov-94	V1.0 Created	Peter Teuben
.fi
