.TH SNAPS2PLOT 1NEMO "14 February 2011"
.SH NAME
snaps2plot \- display an N-body snapshot file in a s2plot display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ds e =\h'-0.0m'
\fBsnaps2plot in\*e\fPsnap-file [parameter\*evalue] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnaps2plot\fP plots a sequence of frames from a
N-body snapshot file on a \fIs2plot\fP display device,
.PP
This program is derived from \fIsnapplot3(1NEMO)\fP and therefore shares
many of its keywords.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized; they may be given in any order.
.TP 24
\fBin\*e\fP\fIsnap-file\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap-file\fP, which must be in snapshot format.
.TP
\fBtimes\*e\fP\fItime-range\fP
Only plot frames with time values within \fItime-range\fP,
which is of the form, eg, "1.0:1.5,2.5,3.0".
The default is "all".
.TP
\fBxvar\*e\fP\fIx-expression\fP
The value of \fIx-expression\fP is plotted along the X axis.
\fIx-expression\fP is a real-valued C language expression over the
real values \fBx\fP, \fBy\fP, \fBz\fP, \fBvx\fP, \fBvy\fP, \fBvz\fP,
\fBphi\fP, \fBt\fP, and the integer value \fBi\fP.
The default is \fBx\fP.
.TP
\fBxlabel\*e\fP\fIx-axis-label\fP
Label for the X axis.
The default is the expression given for \fBxvar\fP.
.TP
\fBxrange\*e\fP\fIx-axis-range\fP
Range of values for the X axis, specified either as a single number
(in which case the lower bound is zero) or a pair of numbers separated
by a colon.
The default range is \fB-2.0:2.0\fP.
.TP
\fByvar\*e\fP\fIy-expression\fP
See above.
The default is \fBy\fP.
.TP
\fBylabel\*e\fP\fIy-axis-label\fP
.TP
\fByrange\*e\fP\fIy-axis-range\fP
.TP
\fBzvar\*e\fP\fIz-expression\fP
See above.
The default is \fBz\fP.
.TP
\fBzlabel\*e\fP\fIz-axis-label\fP
.TP
\fBzrange\*e\fP\fIz-axis-range\fP
.TP
\fBvisib\*e\fP\fIexpression\fP
Determines the visibility of particles.
\fIexpression\fP is a integer expression in the above variables;
only points with non-zero values are plotted. Particles are plotted
in order of their visib, e.g. visib=1 are plotted before visib=2,
thus this keyword can be used to re-arrange the plotting order
on screen (useful if colors are used).
The default is \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBpsize\*e\fP\fIexpression\fP
Determines the point type and size.
\fIexpression\fP is a real expression in the above variables;
zero means plot a point, positive (negative) means plot a circle (cross)
with size controled by absolute value.
The default is \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBcolor\*e\fP\fIexpression\fP
Determines the point color.
\fIexpression\fP is a real expression in the above variables;
values between 0 and 1 produce a sequence of saturated colors starting
with red, running through the spectrum, and wrapping back to red.
The default is \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBcrange\*e\fP\fIcolor-range\fP
Range of colors that should be mapped. Below and above these ranges
the \fIyapp(3NEMO)\fP plotting layer may determine the visibility
of the points.
The default range is \fB0:1\fP.
.TP
\fBs2box\*e\fP\fIcolor-range\fP
S2PLOT style for the X, Y and Z axes. Default: BCDETMNOQ
.SH SEE ALSO
snapplot3(1NEMO), snapplot(1NEMO), bodytrans(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO).
.PP
http://astronomy.swin.edu.au/s2plot/
.SH CAVEATS
Version 0.1 was a quick hack on valentines evening.
It only plots the selected snapshot, it cannot yet
page to the next one. Colors not implemented. Layers (visib=) are
using s2plot's symbols (1,2,...). No tickmark implementation either.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
14-feb-2011	V0.1 - initial version written  	PJT
.fi
