.TH SNAPMASK 1NEMO "13 April 1989"
.SH NAME
snapmask \- mask out certain particles while copying particles from an N-body system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapmask in=\fPsnap_in \fBout=\fPsnap_out [parameters=values...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnapmask\fP copies all particles from an N-body system for which
a select keyword is given
.PP
The Key field (an integer) in the input file (if present) is also copied
accordingly; when it is not present it will be initialized to the order of
particles present in the input file, \fB0\fP being the first one, and \fBnbody-1\fP
the last one.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are reckognized in any order if the keyword is
also given:
.TP 25
\fBin=\fIsnap_in\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap_in\fP, which must be in standard
\fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fI format [no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIsnap_out\fP
Copied output data is written to \fIsnap_out\fP, which will also be in 
\fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. If output file exists, program refuses
to overwrite it and dies. [No default]
.TP
\fBselect=\fIlist\fP
List of numbers of all particles to be copied. This list is currently 
purely by position in the file, and the maximum should never be larger 
than the maximum number of bodies in any of the snapshots to be copied.
The keyword \fBkeyoffset\fP (see below) can be used to correct to
keyvalues to be output.
Example: "\fB0:1000:10,2000:3000:10\fP". [default:all].
.TP
\fBkeyfile=\fIkeyfile\fP
Filename which is assumed to have a key field used to mask the particles
to be copied. [default: not used].
.TP
\fBkeyoffset=\fIoffset\fP
Offset applied to the output key. This offset is a temporary hack until more
programs make use of the key field. The \fIoffset\fP is applied
before it is compared with the key field in the above mentioned \fIkeyfile\fP.
E.g. An input file \fIsnap-in\fP with 10 bodies is compared with a
keyfile \fIsnap-key\fP with 5 bodies numbered 5:9 and  ...
- Don't use this option, still under development.
.SH EXAMPLE
The \fBselect=\fP keyword can easily become very long, longer than an interactive
shell allows. You might see a  \fI"word too long"\fP error message in this case.
One solution is to write the numbers into a simple table and use the construct
.nf
    snapmask in=... out=... select=@particles.tab
.fi
where \fBparticles.tab\fP is an ASCII file with a single column of all selected
particles.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH SEE ALSO
snapsort(1NEMO), snaptrim(1NEMO)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~pjt/nbody		snapmask.c snapmask.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
19-Jun-87	Version 1.0: created                	PJT
9-Mar-88	V1.2: added data-history mechanism	PJT
xx-jun-88	V1.3 new filestruct               	PJT
18-aug-88	V1.4 allow different sized snapshots 	PJT
25-oct-88	V1.5 keyfile + keyoffset introduced  	PJT
6-apr-89	V1.6: skip diagnostics			PJT
12-apr-89	V1.6a: different parser for 'select' 	PJT
.fi
