.TH SNAPADD 1NEMO "13 May 1992" 
.SH NAME
snapadd \- adds N-body systems on top of each other
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBsnapadd in=\fPin1,in2,...\fBout=\fPsnap_out [parameter=value ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program adds up N-body systems by appending a number of snapshots
to each other. Optionally the snapshots can be re-centered to their
center of mass, though this is not the default. If the input files
contain more than one snapshot, they are concurrently added
(copying over the timestamp of the snapshot in the first file)
until any of the files is exhausted.
.PP
If only two snapshots are added, 
\fIsnapstack(1NEMO)\fP offers some more options, such as adding
a relative shift in phase space. If more complicated shifts are necessary,
\fIsnapshift(1NEMO)\fP can be used before \fIsnapadd\fP.
.PP
If you want to keep the snapshots separate, simple unix tools like \fIcat(1)\fP
will work fine. For some of the older NEMO programs, embedded history could throw
them off, and \fIcsf(1NEMO)\fP should be used to create cleaner snapshots. See
an example below.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin1, in2, ..\fP
A number of input files can be supplied, separated by comma's.
They must all be in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format [no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIout_file\fP
output file,  in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBzerocm=t|f\fP
If true, translate to center of mass
before output.  [Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBheadline=\fIstring\fP
Message header appended to any existing ones in the input files [default: none].
.SH LIMITATIONS
Snapshots only copy accross \fIMass\fP (if they have it) and 
\fIPhaseSpace\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapstack(1NEMO), snapmerge(1NEMO), snapmerge_a(1NEMO), snapshift(1NEMO), snapcenter(1NEMO), scf(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.0i
~/src/nbody/trans	snapadd.c
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
Although snapadd merges snapshots, if you want separate snapshots with their own timestamps,
unix \fIcat(1)\fP will do just fine:
.nf
  % cat snap1 snap2 snap3 > snap.all
.fi
though this might throw off some older NEMO programs that cannot handle embeddded history
tags. If so, filter them through \fIcsf(1NEMO)\fP, e.g.:
.nf
  % csf snap1 snap.all
  % csf snap2 - item=SnapShot >> snap.all
  % csf snap3 - item=SnapShot >> snap.all
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
 6-May-87	V1.0: created          	PJT
 8-Mar-87	V1.1: data history	PJT
xx-xxx-87	snapstack written by JEB
18-nov-90	V2.0: snapadd revived with multiple input	PJT
13-may-92	V2.2: added concurrent reading  	PJT
15-jul-07	added examples (while at V2.5b)	PJT
.fi
