.TH SNAPAXSYM 1NEMO "7 July 1989" 
.SH NAME
snapaxsym \- generates an around-axis integrated ccd-like frame of an N-body snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBsnapaxsym in=\fPsnapshot \fBout=\fPimage [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnapaxsym\fP makes a ccd frame from an N-body snapshot, by
binning the (r,z) in the cylindrical coordinate of all stars on a regular 
rectangular (square) grid and
assigning a mean integrated 'local density' (integrated around z-axis, i.e. 
by assuming the axial symmetry around the z-axis,
units: mass (intensity). There is an option which produces the map of
rotation velocity insted of the density 
The ccd frame is written to a standard \fIImage(5)\fP output file, and can
be accessed by various other programs for smoothing, display etc.
.PP
\fIsnaprotate(1NEMO)\fP has to be used first to set the axis of the
symmetry not parallel to the coordinate axis.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, must be in \fISnapShot(5)\fP format [no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, will be in \fIImage(5)\fP format [no default].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fItime-range\fP
Only data frames  with  time  values
within  \fItime-range\fP,  which is of the
form, eg, "1.0:1.5,2.5,3.0", will be
translated.
[default: all].
.TP
\fBsize=\fIvalue\fP
Size of the CCD frame in sky units. Note that the picture 
is forced to be square [default: 5.0].
.TP
\fBcell=\fIvalue\fP
Cell- or pixel size. Again they will be square. For a 2D matrix
this value will be set by the header of that dataset.
[default: 0.1].
.TP
\fBvrot=\fIt|f\fP
Logical if the map of rotational velocity is requested.
[default: f].
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapccd(1NEMO), snaprotate(1NEMO), ccdsmooth(1NEMO)
.SH BUGS
The values of density of the cells closest to the axis of symmetry may be
erratic.
.SH AUTHOR
Jun Makino
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
7-Dec-88	V1.0: Created	JM
7-jul-89	V1.2: get_snap()	PJT
.fi
