.TH SNAPCENTERP 1NEMO "12 August 2022"

.SH "NAME"
snapcenterp - find position center of a snapshot from minimum in potential 

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsnapcenterp in=\fPsnap-file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fIsnapcenterp\fP finds the potential center of a snapshot using
the iterative Cruz et al. (2002) method. They identified
three parameters, \fBfn\fP, \fBeps\fP and \fBeta\fP, discussed below.
This algorithm is linear in \fINbody\fP and \fINiter\fP.
.PP
Unlike \fIsnapcenter(1NEMO)\fP, which centers all phase space coordinates,
this program only centers the spatial coordinates, although the method
could be generalized and center the velocities.
.PP
This program is still in development (see also CAVEATS below), not
all keywords are fully implemented.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 24
\fBin=\fP\fIsnap-file\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap-file\fP, which must be in snapshot format.
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIsnap-file\fP
Output data is written to \fIsnap-file\fP, which will be in snapshot format.
No default.
.TP
\fBweight=\fP\fIexpression\fP
The value of \fIexpression\fP is used to compute the centroid.
\fIexpression\fP is a real-valued C language expression over the
real values \fBx\fP, \fBy\fP, \fBz\fP, \fBvx\fP, \fBvy\fP, \fBvz\fP,
\fBphi\fP, \fBm\fP, \fBt\fP, and the integer value \fBi\fP.
[Default \fBm\fP].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime-range\fP
Only data frames with time values within \fItime-range\fP, which
is of the form, eg, "1.0:1.5,2.5,3.0", will be translated.
[Default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBreport=t|f\fP
Report the center of mass coordinates. These are 2*NDIM numbers,
position and velocity, of the new center of mass in the old
coordinates.
If you want to use \fIsnapcenter\fP in a pipe, you need to reset
\fBreport=f\fP, since both standard output and filestruct output
will get merged, and become illegable for the next program in the
pipe.
[Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBeps=\fP
Softening length, in length units used in the snapshot. [0.025]
.TP
\fBeta=\fP
Convergence stop criterion. This number is the length of the difference 
vector of two subsequent iterations of the potential center, and is thus
in units of those of the snapshot and \fBeps\fP. [0.001]
.TP
\fBfn=\fP
Fraction of particles to consider in the potential finding algorithm [0.5] 
**currently all particles used**
.TP
\fBiter=\fP
Maximum number of iterations to use. If the \fBeta\fP stop criterion
did not converge, this criterion will stop the iterations. [10]
.TP
\fBpos=\fP\fIxc,yc,zc\fP
An estimated center to speed up convergence. [0,0,0]

.SH "CAVEATS"
Mysteriously this does not seem to work well for small Nbody, e.g.
.nf

mkplummer - 100 seed=123 | snapshift - - 0.5,0,0 | snapcenterp - . debug=1 report=t
### nemo Debug Info: 1 0.212503 -0.023019 -0.111053 0.109614
### nemo Debug Info: 2 0.229355 -0.025213 -0.162219 0.053914
### nemo Debug Info: 3 0.221806 -0.025366 -0.175827 0.015562
### nemo Debug Info: 4 0.215902 -0.017432 -0.178834 0.010336
### nemo Debug Info: 5 0.206639 -0.000181 -0.180961 0.019696
### nemo Debug Info: 6 0.193003 0.019449 -0.182329 0.023941
### nemo Debug Info: 7 0.186807 0.025474 -0.182157 0.008644
### nemo Debug Info: 8 0.186308 0.025859 -0.182110 0.000632
0.186308 0.025859 -0.182110

.fi
where the columns are iter#, pos and |r_{i+1} - r_{i}|. But clearly it is not
converging to 0.5. The larger the shift, the better the
convergence. Increasing \fBeps\fP does help, for example for
eps=0.2 an ensemble of simulations with different seeds does return
the proper value within the error. See also $NEMODAT/nemoplot/shift1.tab
and shift2.tab

.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapshift(1NEMO), snapcenter(1NEMO), bodytrans(3NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.PP
Cruz., F et al. - (2002) Rev.Mex.de Astr.y Astr. 38, 225
https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2002RMxAA..38..225C

.SH "ADS"
@ads  2002RMxAA..38..225C

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
.nf
1-apr-06	0.1 Created in Rembrandt Hotel		PJT
12-aug-2022	0.2 cleanup up	PJT
16-aug-2022	0.4 add (nemoplot) example	PJT
.fi
