.TH SNAPCOPY 1NEMO "26 September 1989"
.SH NAME
snapcopy - copy particles of snapshot subject to conditions
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapcopy in=\fIin_file\fP \fBout=\fIout_file\fP [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapcopy\fP copies an N-body system from \fBin\fP to \fBout\fP,
subjecting the individual particles to certain conditions.
.PP
It should be noted that there are a variety of other programs
which can perform copy functions under better circumstances.
\fIsnapsort\fP will rearrange the order of the particles in the
file, after which a number of them can be trimmed of
using either \fIsnapmask\fP or \fIsnapsample\fP. The program
\fIsnapplotedit\fP is an interactive editor, which allows 
the user to edit snapshots using polygonic areas in 2D projections
of 6D-phase space using the snapplot-interface. It requires a
special version of \fIyapp(3NEMO)\fP, which may not be implemented
on all systems.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized:
.TP 24
\fBin=\fIin_file\fP
input file, in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format.  [Default: none.]
.TP
\fBout=\fIout_file\fP
output file,  also \fIsnapshot\fP format.  [Default: none.]
.TP
\fBselect=\fIselect-string\fP
expression which evaluates to an integer, only particles with
non-zero expression will be copied to the output file. The ranking
of the particles is copied to the \fBKey\fI array in the snapshot
if not all particles were selected. The default is all particles will 
be copied. [default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fItime-ranges\fP
Only snapshots with time values within \fItimes-ranges\fP, which is
of the form \fBts[:te],...\fP, will be copied. [default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBprecision=\fBdouble|single\fP
Precision of variables to be stored. The default for snapshots is
\fBdouble\fP (double precision), but many snapshot programs now
recognize data in single precision format. [default: \fBdouble\fP].
\fI *** This option is not implemented yet ***\fP
.TP
\fBkeep=\fIitems-list\fP
List of items to keep in the snapshot. The list may contain
any of \fBtime,mass,phase,phi,acc,aux\fP and \fBkey\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapsort(1NEMO), snapmask(1NEMO), snapplotedit(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/pjt/nbody   	snapcopy.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
12-apr-87	V1.0: document created          	PJT
26-sep-89	V1.1: debugged and exported to NEMO	PJT
.fi


