.TH SNAPMAP 1NEMO "6 May 2011"
.SH NAME
snapmap \- map a snapshot into a 2D image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBsnapmap in=\fPsnapshot \fBout=\fPimage [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapmap\fP "grids" two arbitrary \fIbodytrans(3NEMO)\fP expressions 
(default: \fBx\fP, and \fBy\fP) of a snapshot into a 2D map, using
another \fIbodytrans(3NEMO)\fP expression (default: \fB-vz\fP) as the map
value. The result is an
\fIimage(5NEMO)\fP, with optional astronomical projection for direct
comparision with true astronomical images. There are a number of way
implemented to "grid" the particles: mean value, with or without gaussian
weighting, and forms of linear interpolation.
.PP 
Use \fIsnapgrid(1NEMO)\fP instead to grid datacubes (e.g. X-Y-Z), or
if you need various styles of
line of sight integrations. \fBsnapmap\fP is more appropriate
to obtain well interpolated maps from \fIirregularly sampled\fP data where the
input mapping \fII(x,y)\fP is still a smooth function, although good results
can also be ontained by averaging the values (the default mode) or
using a smoothing length \fIsvar=\fB.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, must be in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. Multiple snapshots can
be stacked uses the \fBtimes=\fP keyword: see \fBstack=\fP below.  [no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, will be in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format. Note that
multiple \fBtimes\fP and/or multiple \fBevar\fP's will produce
multiple images in this file.
[no default].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fIt1:t2,t3,..\fP
Selection of the times of snapshots to be selected for gridding.
For \fBstack=t\fP all snapshots will be co-added into one image,
however selecting \fBstack=f\fP or selecting multiple \fBevar\fP's
one can request multiple output images.
[Default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBxrange=\fIxb:xe\fP
Range in \fBxvar\fP to bin. Note these are the outer edges, not their cell centers.
[default: \fB-2:2\fP].
.TP
\fByrange=\fIxb:xe\fP
Range in \fByvar\fP to bin [default: \fB-2:2\fP].
.TP
\fBxvar=\fP\fIx-expression\fP
The value of \fIx-expression\fP is gridded along the X axis.
[default: \fBx\fP].
.TP
\fByvar=\fP\fIy-expression\fP
The value of \fIy-expression\fP is gridded along the Y axis.
[default: \fBy\fP].
.TP
\fBevar=\fIe1,e2,...\fP
Variable(s) to denote the emissivity per particle.  The default matches that
of \fIsnapgrid(1NEMO)\fP's \fBzvar=\fP. Multiple expressions, separated
by commas, can be given, each of them generating an image.
[default: \fB-vz\fP].
.TP
\fBsvar=\fIsmoothing\fP
Variable to denote gaussian weighting size in X and Y. Note this is the
gaussian sigma, not the FWHM (FMHW = 2.355 * sigma). Only used
if \fBmode=mean\fP. 
.TP
\fBsfunc=\fIsmoothing-function\fP
The function/method to used when smoothing/interpolating.
Options are \fBgaussian\fP and \fPcone\fP.
[Default: \fBgaussian\fP].
.TP
\fBnx=\fIx-pixels\fP
Number of pixels along the X axis of the image [default: \fB64\fP].
.TP
\fBny=\fIy-pixels\fP
Number of pixels along the Y axis of the image [default: \fB64\fP].
.TP
\fBxlab=\fIx-label\fP
Text used to label the X-axis. By default the \fBxvar\fP expression is used.
It may be useful in certain astronomical environment to label the axis
with recognized labels like RA---TAN, DEC--SIN, GLON etc.
.TP
\fBylab=\fIy-label\fP
Same for the Y-axis.
.TP
\fBmode=\fP\fIgridding-mode\fP
mean (can be optionally with gaussian weighting),  linear interpolation
[Default: \fBmean\fP].
.TP
\fBstack=t|f\fP
Should all snapshots from the input file be stacked, or write one
image per selected (see \fBtimes=\fP) time? [default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBproj=\fP
If a valid projection type (SIN, TAN, ARC, NCP, GLS, MER, AIT)
but see also \fIwcs(1NEMO)\fP, the input coordinates are interpreted
in angular degrees, and griddes with the appropriate sky projection.
Default: no sky projection.
.TP
\fBemax=\fP
Normally gaussian smoothing gets cut off when the argument to the exponent
is larger than \fBemax\fP, to prevent roundoff error and/or contributions
from too far away. This equals \fBsqrt(2*emax)\fP times the sigma
listed in \fBsvar=\fP. 
[Default: \fB10\fP]
.SH BUGS
Combinations of large snapshots and large images may run into memory
problems since both the snapshot and the image(s) must fit into memory.
.PP
Sky projections do not guarantee flux conservation, interpolation is done
in linear space.
.SH EXAMPLE
This program was written to create maps with more accurate interpolated
velocity fields from models. However, in the default mode it used
the same \fImean\fP pixel value as \fIsnapgrid(1NEMO)\fP:
.nf
   snapmap  snap101 ccd101 
   snapgrid snap101 ccd102 evar=-vz mean=t
   ccdmath ccd101,ccd102 - %1-%2 | ccdstat -
      Min=0.000000  Max=0.000000
      ...
.fi
produces the same images \fIccd101\fP and \fIccd102\fP from the input snapshot \fIsnap101\fP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapgrid(1NEMO), snapifu(1NEMO), snapsmooth(1NEMO), snapccd(1NEMO), ccdintpol(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
src/nbody/image  	snapmap.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
20-jun-09	V1.0: created	PJT
6-may-11	V1.3: implemented emax= and sfunc=cone	PJT
.fi
