.TH SNAPMASS 1NEMO "30 July 1997"
.SH NAME
snapmass \- add or modify masses in a snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapmass in=\fPsnap_in \fBout=\fPsnap_out [parameters=values...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapmass\fP adds or modifies the masses in a snapshot. 
The keyword \fBmass\fP
can be used to give a \fIbodytrans(3NEMO)\fP expression. 
.PP
Alternatively masses can be copied from another input snapshot.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are reckognized in any order if the keyword is
also given:
.TP 25
\fBin=\fIsnap_in\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap_in\fP, which must be in standard
\fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fI format [no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIsnap_out\fP
Copied output data is written to \fIsnap_out\fP, which will also be in 
\fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format [No default].
.TP
\fBmass=\fIexpression\fP
Expression for the new masses, using \fIbodytrans(3NEMO)\fP to parse
the expression. 
If nothing supplied, either 
\fBinmass=\fP or \fBmassname=\fP will have to be used.
[default: none].
.TP
\fBinmass=\fImass-file\fP
If used, the masses from this snapshot file are copied to that of the
\fIsnap_out\fP file. [default: none].
.TP
\fBmassname=\fIname\fP
Identification of the mass spectrum. It is normally only a function
of mass, so \fBn(m)\fP will suffice. If nothing specified, all
stars will have the same mass (total mass M=1).
[default: none].
.TP
\fBmassexpr=\fIexpr\fP
Expression for the mass-spectrum. In addition to the mass \fIm\fP from
the \fBmassname\fP it may contain any variables contained in the 
\fBmasspars\fP to be specified next. [default: \fBpow(m,p)\fP].
.TP
\fBmasspars=\fIpars\fP
List of parameters and their values. They can be used by name in the
\fBmassexpr\fP specified before. [default: \fBp,0.0\fP].
.TP
\fBmassrange=\fImlow:mhigh\fP
Valid massrange. A lower and higher cutoff must be supplied. The massrange
has arbitrary units, since all masses will be rescaled to set the total
mass M=1. [default: \fB1,1\fP].
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fIseed\fP
seed for the random number  generator (default: a value 0, which will
be  converted  into  a  unique  new
value  using  UNIX's clock time, in 
seconds since  once-upon-a-time-in-the-seventies).
[Default: 0].
.TP
\fBnorm=\fP\fItotal_mass\fP
New total mass required for normalization. By default the masses are not
scaled. See also \fIsnapscale(1NEMO)\fP.
[Default: not used].
.SH SEE ALSO
snapmstat(1NEMO), snapscale(1NEMO), bodytrans(3NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR 
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/nbody/trans	snapmass.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
1-Aug-88	V1.0: created             	PJT
5-dec-88	V1.1: mass keyword added	PJT
5-feb-89	V1.2: bodytrans() used     	PJT
13-may-91	V1.3: helpvec + doc added	PJT
29-may-97	V2.0: mass{name,expr,pars,range} from mkplummer 	PJT
30-jul-97	V2.1: added norm=           	PJT
.fi
