.TH SNAPSHELL 1NEMO "15 November 2005"
.SH NAME
snapshell \- compute statistics of bodyvariables in a set of shells
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapshell in=\fPsnap_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapshell\fP computes selected diagnostics and their statistics 
from an N-body snapshot in a set of shells in an arbitrary body
variable (normally \fBrvar=r\fP).
The snapshot must have been
properly centered and oriented using 
other tools (e.g. \fIsnapcenter(1NEMO)\fP and/or
\fIsnaprect(1NEMO)\fP). 
.PP
Normally the shell radii are explicitly set (optionally normalized)
in \fBrvar\fP space, by setting \fBcumulative=t\fP the
\fBmvar=\fP variable is used to compute a cumulative mass
in each shell, still sorted by \fBrvar\fP of course.
.PP
An arbitrary weighting may be specified for each particle.
.PP
The output will be an ascii table, in which for each variable it will
print a
selected set of statistics (e.g. mean, dispersion, min, max, skewness, kurtosis,
number of particles). Shells with no particles are not output however.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBin=\fP\fIsnap_file\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap_file\fP, which must be in
\fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format.  Note that only the first snapshot
found in this file will be used. No default.
.TP
\fBradii=\fP\fIr0,r1,r2,...\fP
A set of radii in \fInemoinp(3NEMO)\fP format, representing the
edges of the shell. They are normalized if \fBnormalized=t\fP is
used, and their units are in \fBrvar\fP space, unless \fBcumulative=t\fP
is used, when they are in \fBcvar\fP units. No default.
.TP
\fBpvar=\fP\fIvariable\fP
The \fIbodytrans\fP(1NEMO) variable selected for statistics. 
[Default: \fBvt\fP].
.TP
\fBrvar=\fP\fIshell_variable\fP
Default: \fBr\fP
.TP
\fBmvar=\fP\fImass_variable\fP
Default: \fPm\fP
.TP
\fBweight=\fP\fIbody_weight\fP
Expression used to compute the weight of each body.
See \fIbodytrans\fP(1NEMO) for the form of \fIbody_weight\fP.
Default: \fB1.0\fP.
.TP
\fBaxes=\fP\fIx,y,z\fP
Normalization values in X,Y and Z to compute (re-shape) radii. Only used
if shells are given in configuration space (i.e. svar= is not used) and
need to be ellipsoidal in shape. For certain choices of \fBrvar\fP the
use of this keyword has to be taken with care.
[Default: 1,1,1]
.TP
\fBstats=\fP\fIprint_stats\fP
Statistics selected to print. Allowed values are
\fBmean, dispersion, min, max, median, kurt, skew, npt\fP. 
[Default: \fBmean,disp,n\fP].
.TP
\fBformat=\fIstring\fP
Valid C-format descriptor, as used in \fIprintf(3)\fP, for tabular output.
[default: \fB%g\fP].
.TP
\fBnormalized=t|f\fP
Should \fBsvar=\fP (if used) be done in normalized (0..1) space, and therefore
easily allow equal size bins, or in direct svar space (this requires knowledge
of the range of the \fBsvar\fP variable.
[Default: \fBt\fP]
.TP
\fBcumulative=t|f\fP
Should the shells be defined in the cumulative (and optionally normalized) space
of the \fBcmas\fP variable. This way the number of particles in each shell can
be better/differently controlled from selecting them in \fBrvar\fP space.
[Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
\fBfirst=t|f\fP
Should only the first snapshot be processed?
[Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
\fBrstats=t|f\fP
Should statistics on \fBr\fP also be added as a third set of columns. This can be handy
if you selected a particular \fBrvar\fP and want to see over what radii they apply.
[Default: \fBf\fP]

.SH SEE ALSO
snapkinem(1NEMO), snaprect(1NEMO), snapsort(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH EXAMPLES
To get a mean rotation speed in the disk, and the velocity dispersion, for a set of
rings:
.nf
    % \fBmkdisk - rmax=10 | snapsort - - r | snapshell - 0.01:10:0.1 pvar=vt\fP
    #[rvar] mea  dis  npt  #[pvar] mea  dis  npt
    0.221025 0 1           0.213258 0
    0.347701 0.035125 2    0.318487 0.0270184
    0.468138 0.0260884 2   0.403087 0.0164231
    ...
    9.65953 0.0284596 39   0.319191 0.000455262
    9.7589 0.0288926 40    0.317613 0.00045552
    9.85975 0.0293125 41   0.316035 0.000455434
.fi
This results in rings with different numbers of particles (3rd column). By using
an appropriate cumulative variable (e.g. mass) one can easily find shells which
then contain an equal number of particles. The keyword \fBcumulative=t\fP is used
for this:

.nf
    % \fBmkdisk - rmax=10 | snapsort - - r | snapshell - 0:1:0.01 cumulative=t mvar=1 normalized=t\fP
.fi
where we also needed to use \fBmvar=1 normalized=t\fP,since \fImkdisk(1NEMO)\fP creates
a disk of test particles, and does not by default set the mass of the disk.
.PP
In case the particles are sorted by potential from an N-body simulation, one can
select shells by particle number (easy way to make the binsizes the same)
.nf
    % \fBsnapsort run01.dat - phi times=4.0 | snapshell - 0:1:0.01 rvar=phi cumul=t norm=t\fP
.fi
or assign the shells directly in \fBrvar\fP space (this requires you to know the
values in svar space):
.nf
    % \fBsnapsort run01.dat - phi times=4.0 | snapshell - -400:-200:10 rvar=phi cumul=t\fP
.fi
.SH CAVEAT
Ellipsoidal shells may need reshape/sort/reshape?
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
13-nov-01	V1.0 created    PJT
14-nov-05	V2.0 some re-write: svar= is now rvar= 	PJT
15-nov-05	V2.1 added mvar= and cumulative=	PJT
.fi
