.TH SNAPSTACK 1NEMO "7 July 2022"

.SH "NAME"
snapstack \- superimpose two N-body snapshots

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsnapstack in1=\fPin_file1 \fBin2=\fPin_file2 \fBout=\fPout_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fIsnapstack\fP reads in two N-body systems and outputs one containing
particles from both.  It may be used to set up collisions by
specifying offsets in position and velocity space.
.PP
If more than two snapshots need to be stacked, multiple runs of \fIsnapstack\fP.
would be needed, or \fIsnapadd(1NEMO)\fP can be used.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 24
\fBin1=\fP\fIin_file1\fP
.TP
\fBin2=\fP\fIin_file2\fP
Input data will be read from these files, which must be in
\fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format.  Only the first frames are used.
Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIout_file\fP
Output data will be written to \fIout_file\fP.
.TP
\fBdeltar=\fP\fIrel_position\fP
Relative position of first snapshot w.r.t. second.
Default: \fB0.0,0.0,0.0\fP.
.TP
\fBdeltav=\fP\fIrel_velocity\fP
Relative velocity of first snapshot w.r.t. second.
Default: \fB0.0,0.0,0.0\fP.
.TP
\fBzerocm=\fP\fIzero_cm_flag\fP
If true, translate to center of mass before output.
Default: \fBfalse\fP. 
.TP
\fBshift=1|2\fP
Shift system1 or system2?  If the final system is shifted with center
of mass moved to the center, this option is not relevant anymore.
Default: \fB1\fP. 
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP\fImessage\fP
Text message prepended to \fIout_file\fP.  Default: \fInone\fP.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
The \fImkmh97\fP script uses a simple parameterized setup to
set two systems in either a near head-on collision, or a circular orbit.
For a near head-on collision, three positive parameters are given: r0, v0, rp,
with
.nf
        deltar=$r0,$rp,0 deltav=-$v0,0,0
.fi
For a (near) circular orbit two parameters are given, r0, v0, where v0 < 0:
.nf
        deltar=$r0,0,0 deltav=0,$v0,0
.fi
.PP
Chris Mihos \fIorbinit\fP program (v1.1  31-July-2001) sets up two disks in an orbit:
.nf

 -mrat  : mass ratio M1/M2 [1.0]                           mrat
 -geom1 : theta, phi of TREEBI1 disk [0.0 0.0]         thetmod1,phimod1   
 -geom2 : theta, phi of TREEBI2 disk [0.0 0.0]          thetmod2,  phimod2
 -para  : parabolic orbit [false]                             dopara=T
 -a     : semimajor axis in model units [100.0]            a  (ainp=T, doellip=T)
 -e     : orbital eccentricity [1.0]                       e  (einp=T, doellip=T)
 -hyp   : hyperbolic orbit (enter vp/vp_para) [0.0]          vp   (dohyp=T)
 -tp    : peri time in model units [24]                      tp
 -rp    : peri distance in model units [2.5]                 rp    (rpinp=T)
 -orb   : write out keplerian orbit [false]                  dorb=T
 -init  : initialize new TREEBI [false]                      doinit=T
 -ndisk : number of particles in each disk [0]               ndisk1,ndisk2
 -rsort : only create rsort.id files [false]

 a  = rp / (1-e)
 e  = 1 - rp/a
 rp = a * (1-e)
 
orbinit -mrat 8.0 -geom1 195.0 265.0 -geom2 150.0 100.0 -para -tp 24.0 -rp 1.0 -init
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapadd(1NEMO), kep2kep(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Joshua E. Barnes

.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
2-jun-88	
22-jan-89	V1.1 ???	JEB
20-jun-03	V1.2 using new get_snap/put_snap	PJT
5-aug-06	V2.0 added shift= and made zerocm=f default	PJT
.fi

