.TH SNAPSLIT 1NEMO "23 April 1992"
.SH NAME
snapslit \- slit spectrum of an N-body snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBsnapslit in=\fPsnapshot [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapsplit\fP simulates taking a slit 
spectrogram of an N-body snapshot.
The first three moments in a user supplied body variable
(normally the radial velocity \fB-vz\fP as seen by an
observer from the positive Z axis),
are calculated and plotted in three panels
in one graph. The emission variable (defaults to the mass variable
\fBm\fP) is used to weight the moments. 
.PP
In addition the slit must be completely supplied:
slitwidth, pixel size and position angle.
.PP
See \fIsnapgrid(1NEMO)\fP to make a full moment CCD-type map 
CCD frame of a snapshot, again with arbitrary ``observables''. 
.PP
The three moments computed are the total emission (\fBevar\fP), 
mean and dispersion in the \fBzvar\fP variable:
.nf
        m0 = sum(evar)
        m1 = sum(evar*zvar)/m0
        m2 = sqrt(sum(evar*zvar*zvar)/m0 - m1*m1)
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBxvar=\fP\fIxvar_bodyvar\fP
The X variables to be gridded. Any body
variable (see \fIbodtrans(1NEMO)\fP)
can be used.
[Default: \fBx\fP].
.TP
\fByvar=\fP\fIyvar_bodyvar\fP
The Y variable to be gridded. [Default: \fBy\fP].
.TP
\fBzvar=\fP\fIzvar_bodyvar\fP
The Z variable to take the moment of. [Default: \fB-vz\fP].
.TP
\fBevar=\fP\fIevar_bodyvar\fP
The emission variable used to weight the moment. [Default: \fBm\fP].
.TP
\fBorigin=\fIx,y\fP
The origin \fI(x,y)\fP of the center of the slit on the 'sky'
[default: \fB0,0\fP].
.TP
\fBpa=\fIvalue\fP
Position angle of the slit in degrees with respect to the 'North'
(astronomical convention and counterclockwise rotating through 'East')
[default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBwidth=\fIvalue\fP
Width of the slit in sky units [default: \fB0.1\fP].
.TP
\fBlength=\fIvalue\fP
Length of the slit in sky units [default: \fB10.0\fP].
.TP
\fBcell=\fIvalue\fP
Cell- or pixel size of the slit pixels [default: \fB0.1\fP].
.TP
\fBsmooth=\fIarray\fP
Smoothing along the slit, should be at least 1 number, prefarebly normalized 
to unity for sake for conservation of units (mass per square length).
Example is e.g. the Hanning smoothing: "0.25,0.5,0.25".
[default: \fB0.25,0.5,0.25\fP].
.TP
\fBnsmooth=\fIvalue\fP
Number of times the above smoothing kernel is applied over the data
[default: \fB0\fP or \fB1\fP (only if gauss-beam is used)].
.TP
\fBgauss=\fIvalue\fP
Beam size (FWHM, note FWHM = 2.355 * sigma) of a gaussian smoothing kernel.
If this parameter is given, the previously mentioned parameter \fBsmooth\fP
is ignored, and the default value for \fBnsmooth\fP becomes 1.
[default: not used].
.TP
\fBmmax=\fImmax\fP
Maximum surface density to be plotted [default: \fB0.0\fP=auto-scaled].
.TP
\fBvmin=\fIvmin\fP
Minimum velocity to be plotted [default: \fB0.0\fP=auto-scaled].
.TP
\fBvmax=\fIvmax\fP
Maximum velocity to be plotted [default: \fB0.0\fP=auto-scaled].
.TP
\fBsmax=\fIsmax\fP
Maximum velocity dispersion to be plotted [default: \fB0.0\fP=auto-scaled].
.TP
tab=\fBt|f\fP
Produces a table of slitposition, surface density, velocity and
velocity dispersion. When this options is choosed, no plot will be
made [default: \fBf\fP].
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snaprotate(1NEMO), snapccd(1NEMO), snapifu(1NEMO), snapgrid(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/pjt/nbody  	snapslit.c snapslit.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +2.0i +2.0i
27-May-87	document created + V1.0 coding    	PJT
17-Jun-87	V1.0b: recreated after system crash, parameter gauss added.	PJT
8-jun-88	V1.1: new filestruct	PJT
21-feb-89	V1.4: tab=t will produce no output	PJT
22-apr-92	V2.0: added xvar=,yvar=,zvar=,evar=	PJT
.fi
