.TH SNAPSPHERE 1NEMO "14 February 1989"
.SH NAME
snapsphere \- copy a phase space sphere of particles from an N-body system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapsphere in=\fPsnap_in \fBout=\fPsnap_out [parameters=values...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapsphere\fP copies all particles from an N-body system which are within
a radial shell, specified by its center and two radii, in position
as well as velocity position space.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are reckognized in any order if the keyword is
also given:
.TP 25
\fBin=\fIsnap_in\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap_in\fP, which must be in standard
\fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fI format [no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIsnap_out\fP
Copied output data is written to \fIsnap_out\fP, which will also be in 
\fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format [No default].
.TP
\fBrcen=\fIx,y,z\fP
The center of the sphere in space coodinates. [default:\fB0,0,0\fP].
.TP
\fBvcen=\fIvx,vy,vz\fP
The center of the sphere in velocity coodinates. [default:\fB0,0,0\fP].
.TP
\fBrrad=\fI[rmin:]rmax\fP
\fIrmin\fP and \fIrmax\fP are
the inner and outer radius of the shell in space 
coordinates. If only one radius is given, it is assumed to be
the outer radius of the sphere. [default:\fB0:infinity\fP].
.TP
\fBvrad=\fI[vrmin:]vrmax\fP
\fIvmin\fP and \fIvmax\fP are
the inner and outer radius of the shell in velocity 
coordinates. If only one radius is given, it is assumed to be
the outer radius of the sphere. [default:\fB0:infinity\fP].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fItime-ranges\fP
Only snapshots with time values within \fItimes-ranges\fP, which is
of the form \fBts[:te],...\fP, will be 
copied. [default: \fBall\fP].
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH BUGS
Does not handle subsequent multiple snashots when they are larger than the 
first one.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/pjt/nbody     snapsphere.c snapsphere.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
 8-Apr-87	Version 1.0: created          	PJT
22-Apr-87	V1.1: headline bug       	PJT
xx-xxx-87	V1.2: keyword 'select' added	PJT
19-Jun-87	V1.3: 'cs' was not read in	PJT
 1-Jul-87	V1.4: time check	PJT
 6-jun-88	V1.6: new filestruct	PJT
 1-aug-88	V1.6a: bug in mass transfer	PJT
20-dec-88	V1.7: shells instead of spheres	PJT
14-feb-89	V1.7a: bug removed - get_now snap	PJT
.fi
