.TH SNAPDENS 1NEMO "12 April 2003"
.SH NAME
snapdens \- local density estimator in an N-body snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBsnapdens in=\fPsnap_in  [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnapdens\fP finds the space density in an N-body snapshot by
using the Kth nearest neighbor
density estimator discussed by Casertano & Hut (1985, ApJ 298, 80).
It uses a simple N^2 algorithm, and is hence slow for
large snapshots (see also \fIhackdens(1NEMO)\fP).
.PP
In case the number of nearest neighbours used is large enough
and the velocity distribution function is close enough to
gaussian an estimate for the phase space density can also be
obtained (see e.g. the discussion in Lake (1989AJ.....97.1312L))
.PP
Standard output (not the table) is: \fI density weighted 
center of mass, nearest neighbor, maximum density, density radius,
density weighted average density\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
optional output file, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. The Aux() key will
contain the density or phase space density, depending on the \fBdens\fP
key below. [not used].
.TP
\fBkmax=\fIk_max\fP
Number of nearest neighbours used in the density estimator.
[default: \fB6\fP].
.TP
\fBdens=t|f\fP
Density written to file (\fBdens=t\fP) or phase space density (\fBdens=f\fP)
(future expansion) [default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBtab=t|f\fP
Table output? If selected, it shows \fIradius, density, phase space density,
K'th nearest neighbor, velocity dispersion\fP. [default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBformat=\fP\fIf_fmt\fP
Format with which the numbers are output in case a table was selected (see above)
[default: \fB%e\fP].
.TP
\fBtfactor=\fP
If used, this factor is used to scale radii to velocities, used in computing
the phase space densities. ** in development **
.TP
\fBnn=t|f\fP
If set, the neighest neighbor (a number from 0 and Nnbody-1) is saved in the
\fIKey\fP of a \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP.  This is required for the \fIatlas(5NEMO)\fP
format. Default: f
.TP
\fBndim=2|3f\fP
Dimensionality of space. For ndim=2 a surface density will be computed.
Default: 3
.SH TIMING
.nf
.ta +0.5i +0.5i +0.5i +0.5i +0.5i 
Hackforce:	Nbody=16384	Kmax=32	2600"	grolsch SUN 3/160 (f68881)
Snapdens:	Nbody=1024	Kmax=8	240"/0.41 	guinness (f68881)  / P4/1.6
Snapdens:	Nbody=16384	Kmax=64	75000"/83"	grolsch SUN 3/160 (f68881) / P4/1.6
Snapdens:	Nbody=512	Kmax=16	65"	pollux SUN 3/110 (f68881)
Hackdens:	Nbody=512	Kmax=16 xx"	pollux SUN 3/110 (f68881)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
snappeak(1NEMO), snapstat(1NEMO), hackdens(1NEMO), density(1falcON), snapatlas(1NEMO), atlas(5NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.nf
M. Maciejewski et. al: 	Phase-space structures I: A comparison of 6D density estimators (arXiv:0810.0504v1)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/pjt/nbody     snapdens.c snapdens.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
1-Nov-88	V1.0: created          	PJT
12-apr-03	V1.5 added nn= and ndim=	PJT
.fi

