.TH SNAPSPIN 1NEMO "28 April 1998"
.SH NAME
snapspin \- add Z-angular momentum or Z-axial outflow to an N-body snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapspin in=\fIsnap_in\fP \fBout=\fIsnap_out\fP [parameters=values] .\|.\.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnapspin\fP adds angular momentum in the Z-direction
to the particles of a snapshot
By default, all particles are given the same angular frequency (spin),
\fIomega\fP. A positive value means counterclockwise rotation, as seen 
from the positive Z-axis. If potential and/or forces are present, they
are corrected with the usual coriolis term.
.PP
Optionally the spin is allowed vary as function of radius, and 
interpolated from a tabulated rotation curve, \fBV(r)\fP.
However, the potential and forces cannot be corrected in this case.
.PP
Instead of angular momentum, the particles can also be given a
Z-axial
outflow (or inflow). An outflow curve can optionally also be
specified in tabular form, the same way as for spin/rotation.
Again, no corrections to potential and forces are made
in these cases.
.PP
Use \fIsnaprotate(1NEMO)\fP to transform to a different spin-axis,
and \fIsnapshift(1NEMO)\fP to a different center of rotation.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are reckognized in any order if the keyword is
also given:
.TP 25
\fBin=\fIsnap_in\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap_in\fP, which must be in standard
\fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format [no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIsnap_out\fP
Transformed data is written to \fIsnap_out\fP, which will also be in 
\fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format [No default].
.TP
\fBomega=\fIvalue\fP
The amount of spin (units: velocity per length). If the keyword
\fBrotcur\fP (see below) is used, the value of \fIomega\fP is ignored.
[default:\fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBrotcur=\fP\fIr_v_table\fP
An ascii \fItable(5NEMO)\fP
with radii and velocities in columns 1 and 2 resp.
If a table is supplied, the value of \fIomega\fP above is ignored.
Between r=0 and the first radius the rotation curve is linearly
interpolated, outside the last radius a Keplerian falloff is assumed,
and overall interpolation is done using cubic splines
(see \fIspline(3NEMO)\fP).
\fINote:\fP radii in the table must be sorted.
Default: none.
.TP
\fBsign=1|-1\fP
The sign of the input rotation curve 
from \fIr_v_table\fP. 
\fINote:\fP Although meant to be +1 or -1, it's value is
simply multiplied with the value interpolated
from the input rotation curve.  It can also be used in outflow mode,
in which case -1 can be used for inflow.
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBoutflow=t|f\fP
A boolean flag used to change between spin and outflow mode. By
default spin is added to a snapshot (outflow=f).
.TP
\fBtimes=\fItime-ranges\fP
Only snapshots with time values within \fItimes-ranges\fP, which is
of the form \fBts[:te],...\fP, will be 
copied. [default: \fBall\fP].
.SH SEE ALSO
snaprotate(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/nbody/trans   	snapspin.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.5i
18-Aug-87	Version 1.0: created          	PJT
9-Mar-88	V1.1: data history added	PJT
6-jun-88	V1.2: new filestruct	PJT
25-apr-89	V1.3: get/put_snap, omega bug removed	PJT
22-jul-92	V1.5: added rotcur= and sign=	PJT
1-feb-93	V1.7: fixed phi/acc	PJT
28-apr-98	V2.0: added outflow= for Tony Wong	PJT
.fi
