.TH SNAPSMOOTH 1NEMO "12 July 1988" 
.SH NAME
\fBsnapsmooth\fP \- adaptive variable length smoothing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBsnapsmooth in=\fP\fISnapShot(5)-file\fP \fBout=\fP\fIImage(5)-file\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnapsmooth\fP produces a binary file specifying a smoothed
image of an N-body snapshot in the \fIxy\fP plane, with the smoothing length
of each point determined by the distance to a nearby neighbor and
by user-specified parameters. The headline string of the output
file is an image of the parameter values and also shows the number
of particles that were smoothed.
.PP
\fIsnaprotate(1NEMO)\fP has to be used first to image any other than a top-view.
.PP
\fIsnaptrim(1NEMO)\fP has to be used first to produce an image of any
snapshot other than the first in a file.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given 
.TP 20
\fBin=\fISnapShot file\fP
input file, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format [no default, reads first snapshot]
.TP
\fBout=\fIImage file\fP
output file, in binary \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format [no default].
.TP
\fBsl=\fIreal\fP \fBslc=\fIreal\fP
smoothing length will be (distance to \fBk\fPth nearby-neighbor) *
\fBsl\fP + \fBslc\fP. Note that
\fBslc\fP is measured in pixels, and is thus dependant on \fBnpix\fP 
[default sl is 1, slc is 2.5% of npix]
.TP
\fBk=\fIint\fP
the smoothing length will be a factor of the \fBk\fPth nearby-neighbor.
The program uses a two-D tree structure to store
the points, and repeatedly finds the point that encloses the smallest square
around the target point, excluding those it has found already until
it has found k squares [default is 1].
.TP
\fBrealnn=\fIbool\fP
\fBfalse\fP for nearby neighbor approximation, \fBtrue\fP for nearest 
neighbor (slower) [default \fBfalse\fP]. The nearby-neighbor approximation
finds the point that encloses the \fBk\fPth smallest square around the
target point, while the nearest neighbor algorothm takes the box found
by the approximation, enlarges by the amount necessary to enclose a
circle inscribing the square, sorts all of the points in the enlarged
square by distance and returns the \fBk\fPth point.
.TP
\fBevery=\fIint\fP
read every \fBeveryth\fP from snapshot for smoothing [default is 1]:
this can help speed up processing of the image.
.TP
\fBnpix=\fIint\fP
the number of pixels to a side of the square onto which the program
will smooth the image. The program will
scale the image onto the array without distorting the image
such that all the points will fit,
with a margin for spread due to smoothing [default is 100].
.TP
\fBsfunc=\fIsmoothing function name\fP
the smoothing function is either "gauss" or "spline"
(a smooth finite-bounded bell-shaped curve). The surface brightness
of the image will be the total mass of the image.
.TP
\fBgaussminval=\fIreal\fP
minimum value of gaussian (maximum 1.0 at origin) [default 0.01]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapshot(5NEMO), snaprotate(1NEMO), ccddisplay(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Wisnovsky
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/pswisnov/snapsmooth	author's original sources
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
xx-jun-87	Braught into system	PSW
12-jul-88	small mods for new filestruct and history	PJT
.fi
