.TH SNAPPOT 1NEMO "25 March 2005"
.SH NAME
snappot \- add analytical potentials/forces to an N-body system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnappot\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnappot\fP \- add forces and potential from an analytical
potential to a snapshot. Note this replaces (not add) any
previously stored values of the potential and accelerations.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input file (snapshot)
No default.
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
Output file (snapshot)
No default.
.TP 20
\fBpotname=\fP
name of potential(5)
No default.
.TP 20
\fBpotpars=\fP
parameters to potential []    
.TP 20
\fBpotfile=\fP
optional filename to potential []   
.TP 20
\fBtimes=\fP
Which times to work on [all]  
.SH CAVEATS
Some snapshots created use virial units,and their structural
parameters are not simply unity numbers. For example
\fImkhomsph(1NEMO)\fP uses a default \fBrmax=1.2\fP with mass 1
for virial units, whereas \fPpotname=hom\fP uses the equivalent
of mass=1 rmax=1.
.PP
The first parameter in \fBpotpars=\fP is normally interpreted
as the pattern speed. Any non-zero pattern speed will also
modify the potential and forces with the centrifugal terms.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is an example creating a homogenous sphere 1000 particles
and radius=1 (mass=1). Computing exact Newtonian forces and potentials
via \fIsnappot\fP and then using \fIhackforce\fP 
using no softening, then using \fIsnapcmp\fP to compare the potentials:
.nf

% mkhomsph hom.1 nbody=1000 rmin=0 rmax=1
% snappot hom.1 hom.2 potname=hom
% hackforce hom.1 hom.3 tol=0.5 eps=0.0 

% snapcmp hom.2 hom.3 obs=phi 
# time  Min  Qlow Median Qhigh  Max   Mean Sigma
0   -0.0597801 -0.0123398 0.00170801 0.0167317 0.265311  0.00351182 0.0259002

% snapcmp hom.2 hom.3 obs=phi relative=t
# time  Min  Qlow Median Qhigh  Max   Mean Sigma
0   -0.218659 -0.0138202 -0.0013817 0.0111966 0.0504391  -0.00242348 0.0212987

.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
potcode(1NEMO), hackforce(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), potential(5NEMO),
.SH FILES
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
25-Mar-05	V1.0 Created	PJT
.fi
