.TH SNAPPRINT 1NEMO "8 June 2005"
.SH NAME
snapprint \- print out items of a snapshot in table format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBsnapprint in=\fPsnap_in  [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnapprint\fP produces a table of values of requested quantities
of the bodies in a snapshot. These can be processed with programs
such as \fBtabhist, tablsqfit\fP or packages such as \fBmongo\fP,
\fBsuper-mongo\fP and \fBgnuplot\fP. If your processing package
is able to read other types of nbody formats, look at programs
such as \fIsnapgadget(1NEMO)\fP, \fIsnaprv(1NEMO)\fP, or 
\fIsnaptipsy(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
\fBsnapprint\fP also has an option of producing a table of separations
between all bodies of the system. For N bodies this table will have
a length of N(N-1)/2, hence the keyword \fBsepar\fP will for any non-zero
value produce a list which is \fInsep\fP times smaller and print only
\fInsep\fP'th interaction.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBoptions=\fIoption_list\fP
List of data-items which will be listed, any of the \fIbodytrans(3NEM0)\fP
functions can be used in an arbitry expression.
[default: \fBx,y,z,vx,vy,vz\fP].
.TP
\fBformat=\fIstring\fP
Valid C-format descriptor used in \fIprintf(3)\fP to output
the numbers. 
[default: \fB%g\fP].
.TP
\fBsepar=\fInsep\fP
\fInsep\fP will for any non-zero value turn off all above options
and produce a single table of the logarithm of the separations
between the bodies. Only every \fInsep\fPth entry (the stride) of all
N(N-1)/2 combinations will be listed [default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fItimes-string\fP
Time values/intervals of which snapshots should be used. Default is
empty string, which will only extract the first snapshot.
.TP
\fBtab=\fItab-file\fP
If a filename is specified, the table is output to this file. If none,
output will be standard output. [default: no file].
.TP
\fBheader=f|t\fP
Add a header to the output? The header will contain the number of particles,
followed by the timestamp, of the snapshot. If masses, position and velocities
are output in the table, this format is also referred to
as the \fIntmpv(5NEMO)\fP format.
[Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
Should newlines be added between the header elements?
\fBnewline=f|t\fP
[Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
\fBcsv=f|t\fP
Use CSV (comma separated values) output style. This means a comma, instead of
a space, will be used to separate the values in the output stream.
Default: false.
.SH BUGS
Times=time-string does not work, returns btab=NULL, bits=1, i.e.
something weird here. Code is identical to snapcenter, which uses same
technique.
.PP
The inversion function of snapprint, reading a snapshot from a simple
table, could be done with \fItabtos(1NEMO)\fP. Another
route is the somewhat complicated ascii file, 
consisting of a number of catenated tables, that has to be created with 
a little header. See the "205" format in atos(1NEMO) or stoa(1NEMO).
There are shell scripts which handle some of the cases here.
.SH BUGS
A single expression like \fIatan2(y,x)\fP is parsed into two.
.SH SEE ALSO
tabhist(1NEMO), tabtos(1NEMO), mongo users-manual
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/pjt/nbody     snapprint.c snapprint.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
18-Mar-88	V1.0: created          	PJT
15-Apr-88	V1.1: more options	PJT
6-jun-88	V1.2: new filestruct, added separ keyword	PJT
27-sep-88	V1.3: changed to options keyword	PJT
7-feb-89	V1.5: times= added	PJT
10-feb-89	V1.6: bodytrans can be used 	PJT
25-may-90	V1.8: added tab= keyword	PJT
7-jul-97	(V2.0) documented header=	PJT
4-sep-03	V2.2: added csv=	PJT
.fi

