.TH SNAPOPT 1NEMO "11 November 1993"
.SH NAME
snapopt \- Special Ostriker-Peebles 't' calculator
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapopt\fP \fBin=\fP\fIsnapshot\fP [parameter=value ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapopt\fP computes, or aids in computing, \fIt\fP (little-t) from
Ostriker & Peebles 1973 (OP73) paper.
\fIt\fP  is
defined as the ratio of bulk kinetic energy to the potential
energy (\fIcf.\fP eq.(3) and eq. (11) in OP73).
.PP
For this the snapshot is divided in concentric 
cylinders (i.e. the angular momentum
axis is assumed to be along the Z-axis) of specified width.
In each cylinder the mean velocity in the angular direction
is computed (hence backward-moving particles are counted
as negative), and with the total mass in a ring this gives the
total bulk motion in the galaxy. If potentials are present in 
the snapshot, the total potential energy is also computed.
Output contains time, bulk kinetic and potential energy.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIsnap_file\fP
Input file, in standard \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format.
No default.
.TP
\fBdr=\fP\fIwidth\fP
Ringsize for binning radii.
[Default \fB0.1\fP]
.TP
\fBrmax=\fP\fIglobal_rmax\fP
If set, this will be the maximum radius used for binning. All particles
outside this (cylindrical) radius will be discarded.
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBw=\fP
Total Potential energy of the external halo. Note this has to be 
of the same sign as your potential values in the snapshot, in 
general NEMO uses negative potentials
[Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fIt1,t2,...\fP
Times to select snapshot. 
Default: all.
.SH BUGS
Cannot handle external potentials properly, since the external
potential contributions is only counted half.
.SH SEE ALSO
OP73 = J.P. Ostriker & P.J.E. Peebles - ApJ \fB186\fP, 467-480, 1973.
\fIA numerical study of the stability of flattened galaxies: or,
can cold galaxies survive?\fP
.PP
snapkinem(1NEMO), snapprint(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
29-Oct-93	V1.0 Created     	Peter
12-nov-93	V1.1 added rmax= and allow non-equal size snapshots 	PJT
.fi
