.TH SNAPFIT 1NEMO "15 July 2003"
.SH NAME
snapfit \- fit a (6D) snapshot to a (3D) data cube
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapfit\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapfit\fP attempts to match an observed 3D datacube
(where X and Y are normally positions on the sky, and Z the radial velocity) 
with a 6D model snapshot (with the usual \fBx,y,z,vx,vy,vz\fP coordinates,
see \fIbodytrans(1NEMO)\fP). It finds the best match by varying
the two viewing angles, two scale factors and three offsets of the model.
The scalefactors in X and Y are forced to be the same, 
whereas the one in Z is usually independantly determined
(though this can be changed with the parameter \fBzmode\fP).
.PP
Weights can be given to invidual model points, as
well as (to some degree) the data points. 
The weight of the data will be taken
as the intensity at the observed pixel, it's up to pre-processing
to set proper weights. The weight of the model can be modified using a
standard \fIbodytrans(5)\fP expression, applied to each particle
individually, using the \fBweight\fP parameter.
.PP
Currently the match is done in a rather primitive way: 
with respect to their center of mass 
the two moments of inertia 
(see \fIsnapinert(1NEMO)\fP) of the model and data are compared,
after which
the rotation matrix for each is derived
(see also \fIsnaprect(1NEMO)\fP). Then
the product of one and the inverse of the other is compared with the unity
matrix, and the norm of this difference matrix is going to be
minimized (a perfect fit should return 0). We shall refer to this norm
as \fBsum\fP. The output will contain the \fBlog(sum)\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIin_snapshot\fP
Input model \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP. No default.
.TP
\fBcube=\fP\fIin_image\fP
Input data. This can be either a 3D datacube in standard
\fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format or an ascii table, with \fBx,y,vz,I\fP in the
first four columns. In the latter case 
the intensity \fBI\fP is optional, a default
value of 1.0 will be taken for data with missing intensity.
No default.
.TP
\fBcutoff=\fP\fIdata_cutoff\fP
Cutoff applied to data cube, if needed: data values less then
\fIdata_cutoff\fP are ignored. Default: no cutoff given,
all data from image (table) are used.
.TP
\fBweight=\fP\fIbody_weight\fP
Weight (see \fIbodytrans(1NEMO)\fP)
given to model particles. Bodies with weight less or equal zero
are ignored. [default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIout_snapshot\fP
Optional output \fIsnapshot(1NEMO)\fP. It can also be
controlled by the \fBminchi\fP and \fBframe\fP
parameters. No name, and this is the
default, there will be no output snapshot. If selected, 
of the phase space coordinates
only the \fBx\fP, \fBy\fP and \fBz\fP coordinates are
written. \fI ** not implemented ** \fP
.TP
\fBminchi=\fP
Minimum \fBlog(sum)\fP needed for an output snapshot.
 \fI ** not implemented ** \fP
.TP
\fBframe=model|data\fP
Select to output the re-oriented snapshot in \fBmodel\fP or
\fBdata\fP coordinates. [Default: \fBmodel\fP].
 \fI ** not implemented ** \fP
.TP
\fBzmode=sim|sep\fP
Selection if the \fBzvar\fP coordinate should be treated equal
(\fBsim\fP)
or seperately (\fBsep\fP) in the minimization. [Default: \fBsep\fP].
.TP
\fBtheta1=\fP\fIi1,i2,...\fP
the first rotation angle to fit. Fixed values can be given, in which
case these are tested against. By default no values are given.
This angle can be associated with the inclination of a disk, if this
is kept in mind.
.TP
\fBtheta2=\fP\fIp1,p2,...\fP
the second rotation angle to fit. \fIsee comments above.\fP
This angle can be associated with the position angle of a disk, if this
is kept in mind.
.TP
\fBcontour=\fP\fIout_image\fP
Optional output file, in which for all input angles
(\fItheta1,theta2\fP)
the values of the logarithm of the norm of the difference
matrix (\fBlog(sum)\fP) is stored in standard
\fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format. 
Contour plots can be made with \fIccdplot(1NEMO)\fP
Default: none.
.TP
\fBiter=\fP
Number of extra iterations needed for the best model from choosen
values of the matrix of \fItheta1,theta2\fP angles to narrow down
the search.
\fI ** not implemented ** \fP
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fIt1:t2,t3,...\fP
Standard selection of the (ranges of) times to be selected from the
input snapshot [Default: \fBall\fP].
.\" .TP
.\" \fBmaxreport=\fP\fI
.\" In case any of the initial conditions \fBtheta1\fP or \fBtheta2\fP
.\" were given, this will be the maximum number of best chi-squares.
.\" By default, all will be given. With this keyword the output can
.\" be controlled.
.\"  \fI ** not implemented ** \fP
.SH BUGS
A \fItime-scale\fP factor should be absorbed by the 
user into the \fBzvar\fP
expression.  This is the factor by which the
(model/data?) velocities are multiplied in order to
compute a properly dimensioned for chi-squared. This problem is only
partially overcome by using \fBzmode=separate\fP
.PP
\fIsnapfit\fI only works for \fBNDIM=3\fP: the input data must be
a 3D datacube.
.PP
May work reasonably well for single features to fit, for double features
a principle component analysis may have to be done beforehand.
.SH SEE ALSO
tablsqfit(1NEMO), snaprect(1NEMO), snapinert(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
30-May-92	V0.0 Prototype created               	PJT
15-jul-03	V0.7 documentated some recent changes	PJT
.fi
