.TH SNAPXYZ 1NEMO "30 March 1997"
.SH NAME
snapxyz \- Convert snapshot to xyzc data
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapxyz\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapxyz\fP converts snapshot data into Position-Color (\fBxyzc\fP) data,
or optionally Position-Velocity-Color (\fBxyzuvwc\fP) data.
In this format utilities exist to interactively browsing this 3D dataset,
optionally accompanied with velocity vectors. See \fIxyzview(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
The positions are computed 
using a \fIbodytrans(3NEMO)\fP expression, and default to \fBx,y,z\fP
for position, and  \fBvx,vy,vz\fP  for velocity.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input file of \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP data. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output file for xyzc/xyzuvwc data in \fIxyz(3NEMO)\fP format. No default.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP
Range of times to convert. [Default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBxvar=\fP
Expression for x-axis variable    [Default:  \fBx\fP].
.TP
\fByvar=\fP
Expression for y-axis variable    [Default:  \fBy\fP].
.TP
\fBzvar=\fP
Expression for z-axis variable    [Default:  \fBz\fP].
.TP
\fBvxvar=\fP
Expression for vx-axis variable (see also \fBvel=\fP below)
[Default:  \fBvx\fP].
.TP
\fBvyvar=\fP
Expression for vy-axis variable  (see also \fBvel=\fP below)
[Default:  \fBvy\fP].
.TP
\fBvzvar=\fP
Expression for vz-axis variable  (see also \fBvel=\fP below)
[Default:  \fBvz\fP].
.TP
\fBvel=t|f\fP
Should velocities be output also.
Default: \fBt\fP.
.TP
\fBcolor=\fP
Expression for point color. This must be an integer expression,
0 being the background color, 1 and higher some other colors.
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBvisib=\fP
Expression for point visibility. This must be an integer expression,
where 0 means invisible, and anything else visible.
[Default: \fB1\fP].
.SH SEE ALSO
snap3dv(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Josh Barnes, Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
xx-xxx-90	V1.x using bodymap(3ZENO)         	JEB
20-Jan-93	V2.0 using bodytrans(3NEMO) now  	PJT
30-mar-97	V2.1 formal export in NEMO; added vel=	PJT
.fi

