.TH SNAPPLOTEDIT 1NEMO "20 August 1988"
.ds e =\h'-0.0m'
.SH NAME
snapplotedit \- display and edit an N-body snapshot file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapplotedit in\*e\fPsnap-file out\*e
[parameter\*evalue] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapplot\fP and its relatives plot a sequence of frames from a
standard N-body snapshot file.
\fItrakplot\fP is very similar to snapplot, but does not erase and
redraw the screen after each frame plotted.
\fIeditplot\fP has the same plotting capabilities as \fIsnapplot\fP,
but allows the user to define polygonic areas (using a mouse device),
within which all stars are written out to a file.
Arbitrary (algebraic) transformations from particle coordinates to
plotting coordinates may be specified; the visibility, point type,
and color may be controled in the same way.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized; they may be given in any order.
.TP 24
\fBin\*e\fP\fIsnap-file\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap-file\fP, which must be in snapshot format.
No default.
.TP
\fBout\*e\fP\fIsnapshot-file\fP
The output file, in case \fIeditplot\fP was used. It is best to be in a
graphics window, in order to see regular output, such as menus.
No default.
.TP
\fBtimes\*e\fP\fItime-range\fP
Only plot frames with time values within \fItime-range\fP,
which is of the form, eg, "1.0:1.5,2.5,3.0". 
The default is "all".
.TP
\fBxvar\*e\fP\fIx-expression\fP
The value of \fIx-expression\fP is plotted along the X axis.
\fIx-expression\fP is a real-valued C language expression over the
real values \fBx\fP, \fBy\fP, \fBz\fP, \fBvx\fP, \fBvy\fP, \fBvz\fP,
\fBphi\fP, \fBt\fP, and the integer value \fBi\fP.
The default is \fBx\fP.
.TP
\fBxlabel\*e\fP\fIx-axis-label\fP
Label for the X axis.
The default is the expression given for \fBxvar\fP.
.TP
\fBxrange\*e\fP\fIx-axis-range\fP
Range of values for the X axis, specified either as a single number
(in which case the lower bound is zero) or a pair of numbers separated
by a colon.
The default range is \fB-2.0:2.0\fP.
.TP
\fByvar\*e\fP\fIy-expression\fP
See above.
The default is \fBy\fP.
.TP
\fBylabel\*e\fP\fIy-axis-label\fP
.TP
\fByrange\*e\fP\fIy-axis-range\fP
.TP
\fBvisib\*e\fP\fIexpression\fP
Determines the visibility of particles.
\fIexpression\fP is a integer expression in the above variables;
only points with non-zero values are plotted.
The default is \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBpsize\*e\fP\fIexpression\fP
Determines the point type and size.
\fIexpression\fP is a real expression in the above variables;
zero means plot a point, positive (negative) means plot a circle (cross)
with size controled by absolute value.
The default is \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBcolor\*e\fP\fIexpression\fP
Determines the point color.
\fIexpression\fP is a real expression in the above variables;
values between 0 and 1 produce a sequence of saturated colors starting
with red, running through the spectrum, and wrapping back to red.
The default is \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBframe\*e\fP\fIname\fP
If supplied, this will be the basename of SUN screendumps stored in
\fIrasterfile(5)\fP format. Various utilities exist to manipulate
rasterfiles, e.g. \fImovie(1NEMO)\fP. Note that \fIsnapplot\fP
will in general be used in sunwindows mode, whereas \fImovie\fP can
only run in native SUN fullscreen mode. Because movie expects the
rasterfiles to have basename \fBframe\fP, \fIname\fP must always be
\fBframe\fP if the frame option is used. The default is no
frame  rastefiles stored.
.SH TRANSFORMATIONS
\fIsnapplot\fP handles arbitrary C expressions by invoking the compiler,
which is general but rather slow.
To speed things up, the expressions are first treated as names and
checked against a collection of precompiled expressions stored as
".o" files.
If a match is found, the precompiled object is used instead.
Precompiled transformations include: \fBx\fP, \fBy\fP, \fBz\fP,
\fBvx\fP, \fBvy\fP, \fBvz\fP, \fBr\fP, \fBv\fP, \fBvr\fP, \fBvt\fP,
\fBjtot\fP, \fBphi\fP, \fBetot\fP, \fBt\fP, and \fBi\fP.
A complete list may be deduced by looking in \fB.../nemo/obj/bodytrans/\fP,
which is the default repository.
It is possible to customize your own transformations and mantain alternate
collections; see \fIbodytrans\fP(1NEMO) for more information.
.SH EDITPLOT
When editplot was invoked, after the usual display has been
initialized, the mouse can be used to define a polygon. 
At the start of every new polygon the program
should beep for your attention. The LEFT button can then be
used to start and continue entering vertices, 
and they will also be shown on the screen; the RIGHT button is used
to close the polygon. The MIDDLE button can be used to 'erase' previous
vertices (as far back as erasing the initial point, although the already
drawn lines cannot be erased from the screen).
.PP
After each polygon is closed, the program makes sure all stars within that
polygon are flagged to be copied to the output file at the end of
your session. You can define new polygons in a loop, until you close
a polygon with zero length (using the RIGHT button as initial and
last point of the polygon). The program then copies all stars within all
polygons to the output file.
.SH EXAMPLES
Plot snapshot file "r100.dat" frame-by-frame, with default transformations:
.RS
.nf
% \fBsnapplot r100.dat\fP
.fi
.RE
Plot radius vs radial velocity at times 2.0 through 6.0:
.RS
.nf
% \fBsnapplot r100.dat xvar\*er xrange\*e0:2 yvar\*evr times\*e2:6\fP
.fi
.RE
Plot binding energy vs angular momentum, showing only the
first 1000 particles:
.RS
.nf
% \fBsnapplot r100.dat xvar\*eetot xrange\*e-4:0 \\
\ \ xlabel\*e"Binding energy" yvar\*ejtot yrange\*e0:0.8 \\
\ \ ylabel\*e"Angular momentum" visib\*e"i < 1000"\fP
.fi
.RE
NB: this last example assumes that "r100.dat" includes potential
data in addition to the usual phase-space data.
The expression specified for \fIvisib\fP will be passed to the
C compiler.
.SH SEE ALSO
bodytrans(1NEMO), movie(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO).
.SH BUGS
The default ranges should depend on the variables plotted.
.PP
The basename for rasterfiles for use with \fImovie\fP must always be
\fBframe\fP. See also \fImovie(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
In \fIeditplot\fP all snapshots can be edited, but many programs
bomb when subsequent snapshots have more particles than the first
one. It is not advised to use this mode with multiple snapshots in
the output file.
\fIData files with unequal snapshot size have now been taken care of\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes.
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
xx-xxx-86	Original program	JEB
xx-jul-87	V1.3  various color updates	JEB
23-oct-87	V1.3f added frame= option for movies	PJT
xx-xxx-88	V2.0  new filestruct	JEB
13-aug-88	V2.1  editplot added to the snapplot family	PJT
