.TH SNAPGADGET 1NEMO "19 January 2022"

.SH "NAME"
snapgadget - convert snapshot to GADGET format

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsnapgadget\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsnapgadget\fP converts  data
from standard \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format into
\fIgadget(lNEMO)\fP. 
.PP
Although \fIgadget(lNEMO)\fP has several flavors of particles
(halo, disk, bulge, stars, gas), this version can only handle
a limited set due to current limitations in the way snapshot's
are handled.
.PP
Some programs (e.g. AHF) that need proper cosmological information
in a gadget header, will need these explicitly passed via
a set of parameters (see below).

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input file (snapshot format). No default.
.TP 
\fBout=\fP
Output file (gadget format).  Each 
snapshot is placed in its own file, and "%t"
is replaced with the time of the snapshot (useful
for times=all). No default.
.TP
\fBN=\fP\fINhalo,Ndisk,Nbulge,Nstars\fP
Nhalo,Ndisk,Nbulge,Nstars needs to be specified for
the sub-components as GADGET wants them. Note the 
current version does not handle gas particles. No default.
.TP
\fBM=\fP\fIMhalo,Mdisk,Mbulge,Mstars\fP
The masses (per particle) of each of the components listed
in the \fBN=\fP keyword. You only need this if no masses
are present. Note in this mode it is not possible to have
different masses per component. Default: not used.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP
Times of the snapshots to select for output. Default: all
.TP 
\fBswap=\fP
Force swaping bytes for other-endian machines [f] 
\fBz=\fP
Current Redshift [0]    
.TP
\fBz=\fP
Current redshift [0]
.TP
\fBbox=\fP
Box size (Mpc/h) [128]   
.TP
\fBomega0=\fP
Omega_0 [0.3]     
.TP
\fBlambda0=\fP
OmegaLambda0 [0.7]     
.TP
\fBh=\fP
HubbleParam [0.75]     

.SH "CAVEATS"
There is an option to run gadget in double precision mode, their output files 
may not be compatible with this version of the program.
.PP
Such "unformatted binary" files are limited to 4GB per block.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
gadgetsnap(1NEMO), nemo2gadget(1NEMO), gadget2nemo(1NEMO), uns2uns(1NEMO), g2info(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), gadget(5NEMO)
.PP
http://www.mpa-garching.mpg.de/gadget/
.PP
https://gitlab.mpcdf.mpg.de/vrs/gadget4/-/blob/master/documentation/06_snapshotformat.md
.SH "AUTHOR"
Jeremy Bailin

.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
8-sep-03	V0.1 Created	J.Bailin
8-sep-03	V0.2 minor mods on order of arguments, fix missing %t case	PJT
21-jun-11	V1.0 add some reasonable cosmo defaults, in case they're needed	PJT
22-jun-11	V1.1 add M=	PJT
19-jan-22	updated man page format; added links	PJT
.fi
