.TH SNAPFOLDE 1NEMO "28 July 2020"
.SH NAME
snapfold \- fold a thin disk N-body snapshot file into a cone along Z axis
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapfold in=\fPsnap-file \fBout=\fPsnap-file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapfold\fP folds the positions and velocities of an
N-body snapshot file representing a thin disk. The disk can be folded
up to a cone around the +Z axis, or down to a cone around the -Z axis.
Fold angle (\fBtheta=\fP) must thus  be between -90 and +90.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized; they may be given in any order.
.TP 24
\fBin=\fP\fIsnap-file\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap-file\fP, which must be in snapshot format.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIsnap-file\fP
Output data is written to \fIsnap-file\fP.
.TP
\fBtheta=\fP\fIx-angle\fP
Fold Angle (in degrees).
Default: 0.0
.TP
\fBfill=t|f\fP
Fill the cone?  Otherwise it will be a thin wall.
Default: false
.TP
\fBview=0,1,-1\fP
Limit the view of the cone. view=0 shows the whole cone, view=1 shows the front side (towards
the -Y axis)
view=-1 the backside (towards the +Y axis).
The value of 1+|view| will actually determine the opening angle
in the plane of the visible part.
[0]
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is an example creating a tilted cone with outflow
.nf

  set nbody = 10000
  set vscale = 0
  set outflow = 1.0
  set cone = 30
  set inc = 30
  
.fi
here vscale controls how much rotation is left, and outflow how much radial outflow.
cone is the opening angle of the outflow, which points to the observer, but inc will
incline it from the sky/disk plane.
.nf

  mkdisk - $nbody mass=1 |\\
    snapscale - - vscale=$vscale |\\
    snapspin - - omega=$outflow outflow=t|\\
    snapfold - - theta=90-$cone |\\
    snaprotate - - $inc y |\\
    snapgrid - $out.vel moment=-1
    
.fi
In this example the outflow is perpendicular to a disk, which is not in this example.
A more expaned version is in the script \fBmk_cone\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
snaprotate(1NEMO), snapspin(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
$NEMO/src/nbody/trans/snapfill.c
$NEMO/scripts/csh/mk_cone - expanded example of a disk with one or two outflow cones
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
20-nov-2017	V0.1 a quick hack to make a cone (at ESO)	PJT
22-mar-2018	V0.3 add fill=	PJT
22-jul-2020	note the new mk_cone script	PJT
28-jul-2020	V0.4 allow the cone to shrink in angle as well (view=)		PJT
.fi
