.TH SNAPPLOT 1NEMO "11 February 1998"
.SH NAME
snapplot, trakplot \- display an N-body snapshot file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ds e =\h'-0.0m'
\fBsnapplot in\*e\fPsnap-file [parameter\*evalue] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapplot\fP plots a sequence of frames from a
standard N-body snapshot file on a \fIyapp(5NEMO)\fP display device.
\fItrakplot\fP is an old name of snapplot that would 
not erase and redraw the screen after each frame plotted, and 
could thus be used to
show the orbit of the selected points. The later added (boolean) 
keyword \fBtrak=\fP (see below) should now be used to explicitly 
set the 'trak'ing mode. See also the \fBstack=\fP option
in \fIsnapgrid(1NEMO)\fP
.PP
Arbitrary (algebraic) transformations from particle coordinates to
plotting coordinates may be specified; the visibility, point type,
and color may be controled in the same way.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized; they may be given in any order.
.TP 24
\fBin\*e\fP\fIsnap-file\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap-file\fP, which must be in snapshot format.
.TP
\fBtimes\*e\fP\fItime-range\fP
Only plot frames with time values within \fItime-range\fP,
which is of the form, eg, "1.0:1.5,2.5,3.0".
The default is "all".
.TP
\fBxvar\*e\fP\fIx-expression\fP
The value of \fIx-expression\fP is plotted along the X axis.
\fIx-expression\fP is a real-valued C language expression over the
real values \fBx\fP, \fBy\fP, \fBz\fP, \fBvx\fP, \fBvy\fP, \fBvz\fP,
\fBphi\fP, \fBt\fP, and the integer value \fBi\fP.
The default is \fBx\fP.
.TP
\fBxlabel\*e\fP\fIx-axis-label\fP
Label for the X axis.
The default is the expression given for \fBxvar\fP.
.TP
\fBxrange\*e\fP\fIx-axis-range\fP
Range of values for the X axis, specified either as a single number
(in which case the lower bound is zero) or a pair of numbers separated
by a colon.
The default range is \fB-2.0:2.0\fP.
.TP
\fByvar\*e\fP\fIy-expression\fP
See above.
The default is \fBy\fP.
.TP
\fBylabel\*e\fP\fIy-axis-label\fP
.TP
\fByrange\*e\fP\fIy-axis-range\fP
.TP
\fBvisib\*e\fP\fIexpression\fP
Determines the visibility of particles.
\fIexpression\fP is a integer expression in the above variables;
only points with non-zero values are plotted. Particles are plotted
in order of their visib, e.g. visib=1 are plotted before visib=2,
thus this keyword can be used to re-arrange the plotting order
on screen (useful if colors are used).
The default is \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBpsize\*e\fP\fIexpression\fP
Determines the point type and size.
\fIexpression\fP is a real expression in the above variables;
zero means plot a point, positive (negative) means plot a circle (cross)
with size controled by absolute value.
The default is \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBcolor\*e\fP\fIexpression\fP
Determines the point color.
\fIexpression\fP is a real expression in the above variables;
values between 0 and 1 produce a sequence of saturated colors starting
with red, running through the spectrum, and wrapping back to red.
The default is \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBcrange\*e\fP\fIcolor-range\fP
Range of colors that should be mapped. Below and above these ranges
the \fIyapp(3NEMO)\fP plotting layer may determine the visibility
of the points.
The default range is \fB0:1\fP.
.TP
\fBtrak\*e\fP\fBt|f\fP

.SH TRANSFORMATIONS
\fIsnapplot\fP handles arbitrary C expressions by invoking the compiler,
which is general but rather slow.
To speed things up, the expressions are first treated as names and
checked against a collection of precompiled expressions stored as
".o" files.
If a match is found, the precompiled object is used instead.
Precompiled transformations include: \fBx\fP, \fBy\fP, \fBz\fP,
\fBvx\fP, \fBvy\fP, \fBvz\fP, \fBr\fP, \fBv\fP, \fBvr\fP, \fBvt\fP,
\fBjtot\fP, \fBphi\fP, \fBetot\fP, \fBt\fP, and \fBi\fP.
A complete list may be deduced by looking in \fB.../nemo/obj/bodytrans/\fP,
which is the default repository.
It is possible to customize your own transformations and mantain alternate
collections; see \fIbodytrans\fP(1NEMO) for more information.
.SH EXAMPLES
Plot snapshot file "r100.dat" frame-by-frame, with default transformations:
.RS
.nf
% \fBsnapplot r100.dat\fP
.fi
.RE
Plot radius vs radial velocity at times 2.0 through 6.0:
.RS
.nf
% \fBsnapplot r100.dat xvar\*er xrange\*e0:2 yvar\*evr times\*e2:6\fP
.fi
.RE
Plot binding energy vs angular momentum, showing only the
first 1000 particles:
.RS
.nf
% \fBsnapplot r100.dat xvar\*eetot xrange\*e-4:0 \\
\ \ xlabel\*e"Binding energy" yvar\*ejtot yrange\*e0:0.8 \\
\ \ ylabel\*e"Angular momentum" visib\*e"i < 1000"\fP
.fi
.RE
NB: this last example assumes that "r100.dat" includes potential
data in addition to the usual phase-space data.
The expression specified for \fIvisib\fP will be passed to the
C compiler.
.SH SEE ALSO
snapplot3(1NEMO), bodytrans(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO).
.SH BUGS
The default ranges should depend on the variables plotted.
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes.
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
28-apr-04	documented history	PJT
.fi
