.TH SNAPFOUR 1NEMO "10 November 2005"
.SH NAME
snapfour \- fourier analyze a snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapfour in=\fPsnapshot_file  [parameters=values...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapfour\fP computes a number of requested fourier (\fIcos\fP and 
\fIsin\fP)
coefficients in a user determined part of the snapshot
By default the snapshot is divided in a set of concentric
cylindrical rings, and a fourier analysis is done in 
cylindrical coordinates.
.PP
The observable quantity \fIf\fP is fitted as
.nf
  f(r,theta) = sum_{cmi..}{A(r)cos(cmi*theta) + sum_{smi..}{B(r)sin(smi*theta) 
.fi
where \fIx\fP, \fIy\fP as well as \fIf\fP
.fi
  r = sqrt(x*x+y*y) , theta=atan2(y,x)
.fi
can be any arbitrary \fIbodytrans(3NEMO)\fP expression using the
\fBxvar\fP, \fByvar\fP and \fBfvar\fP keywords. The least squares
is done using normalized equations, which are known for roundoff
problem in case a large number of coefficients or points are used.
.PP
Optionally the cos (A) and sin (B) coefficients can be transformed
into an amplitude (C) and phase (P), see \fBamode=\fP below.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is
also given:
.TP 25
\fBin=\fIin_file\fP
Input data file, must be in standard \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP 
format [No default].
.TP
\fBradii=\fIrmin,r1,..,rmax\fP
Radii of the rings (but see \fBxvar\fP and \fByvar\fP below)
within which the fourier coefficients are computed.
[Default: \fB0:2:0.2\fP].
.TP
\fBcos=\fIcm1,cm2,..\fP
Set of integers for which the cosine amplitudes need to be computed.
[Default: \fB0:4\fP].
.TP
\fBsin=\fIsm1,sm2,..\fP
Set of integers for which the sine amplitudes need to be computed.
[Default: \fB1:4\fP].
.TP
\fBxvar=\fIx-variable\fP
X-variable which is used to compute the radius and angle used
in the fourier decomposition. [Default: \fBx\fP].
.TP
\fByvar=\fIy-variable\fP
Y-variable which is used to compute the radius and angle used
in the fourier decomposition. [Default: \fBy\fP].
.TP
\fBfvar=\fIf-variable\fP
Fourier-variable which is the variable used in
in the fourier decomposition. [Default: \fBvy\fP].
.TP
\fBweight=\fIw-variable\fP
Weight-variable which is the weight applied to the
observable. [Default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBamode=t|f\fP
Logical; if true it displays the sin and cos terms, if false,
the amplitudes and phases (in degrees). [Default: \fBt\fP]
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fIt1,t2,...\fP
Times to select for analysis. 
[Default: \fBall\fP].
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf

  % mkexpdisk disk1 10000
  % snapfour disk1 amode=f > tab1
  % tabplot tab1 1 4,3,6,8,10 line=1,1 color=2,3,4,5 ycoord=0 
  % tabplot tab1 1 5:11:2 line=1,1 color=2,3,4,5 ycoord=0

.fi
Another case is that of an inclined disk that first needs to be 
rectified, but preserving the position angle of the major axis.
Lets assume the \fB$pa\fP and \fB$inc\fP are known. 
Unlike for kinematic 
observations (see e.g. \fIrotcur(1NEMO)\fP) we don't care which
side of the disk is the near side. The rectify operation to get
the galaxy back to a "face-on" view depends if you disk is
truely 3D or (as is normally observed) a sky-projected inclined
disk. For the former case we then get:
.nf

  % snaprotate disk1 disk2 theta=-$pa,-$inc,$pa order=zyz
  % snapfour disk2 ...

.fi
and for the latter case
.nf

  % snaprotate disk1 -     theta=-$pa order=z         |\\
    snapscale  -     -     rscale="1/cosd($inc),1,0"  |\\
    snaprotate -     disk2 theta=$pa  order=z
  % snapfour disk2 ...

.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bodytyrans(1NEMO), orbfour(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.PP
Binney, J.J. & Spergel, D. (1982) ApJ 253, 308.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +1.5i
~/src/nbody/reduc	snapfour.c 
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
3-dec-90	V1.0: written	PJT
17-feb-92	V1.1: added weight=	PJT
10-nov-93	V1.2: added times=	pjt
