.TH SNAPSPLIT 1NEMO "2 June 2004"
.SH NAME
snapsplit \- split a snapshot into pieces
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapsplit\fP \fbin= out=\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapsplit\fP is modeled after the unix program split(1), and splits
a snapshot up into pieces of equal length, except perhaps for the last
one which may be ''incomplete''. It's purpose is solely to be able
to process snapshots which are too big to fit into memory.
You can either specify the size of the new snapshot, or the number
of pieces you want to have a snapshot split into.
.PP
Note that not all programs can correctly handle snapshots in
this serialized mode. For example, \fIradprof(1NEMO)\fP needs
all particles in memory at the same time.
.PP
If you want to create
split a snapshot by time, use \fIsnaptrim(1NEMO)\fP; it can
also create multiple output files.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input snapshot      
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output snapshot. If a \fIprintf(3)\fP-like format specification
is used.
No default.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP
Times to select. 
default: \fIall\fP.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP
Size of one snapshot . At least one of \fBnbody=\fP and
\fBnsnap=\fP needs to be given. 
No default.
.TP
\fBnsnap=\fP
Number of pieces to cut a snapshot into.
No default.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example splits a 1000 body snapshot in pieces of 250 bodies, and views
the 2nd piece:
.nf
  % mkplummer p1000 1000
  % snapsplit p1000 p1000.split nbody=250
  % snapplot p1000.split times=#2
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
snapmerge(1NEMO)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
~src/nbody/trans	snapsplit.c
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
27-Jan-94	V1.0 Created	PJT
.fi
