.TH SNAPTRIM 1NEMO "31 December 2003"
.SH NAME
snaptrim \- select a subset of the snapshot frames in a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnaptrim in=\fIin_file\fP \fBout=\fIout_file\fP [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnaptrim\fP reads \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) data from \fBin\fP and
copies a subset of the frames to \fBout\fP.  Frames may be selected by
specifying either a time range, or sampling frequencies for particle
and diagnostic frames.
.PP
\fIsnaptrim\fP has the option of assuming the input file contains
a sorted series (in time) of snapshots, in which case the
scanning stops immediately after the last needed snapshot is
written. (see keyword \fBcheckall=\fP below).
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized:
.TP 24
\fBin=\fIin_file\fP
Input data is read from \fIin_file\fP, in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO)
format.  Default: none.
.TP
\fBout=\fIout_file\fP
Selected frames are written to \fIout_file\fP.  If the name contains
a valid \fImstropen(3NEMO)\fP formatted name, the output file
will be split over multiple files.
Default: none.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fItime_range\fP
Select frames with time values within \fItime_range\fP, which is of a
form such as \fB1.0:1.5,2.5,3.0\fP. A special format is allowed to
select the Nth snapshot using \fBtimes=#\fP\fIN\fP, where
the first snapshot is counted as 1. Special values are 
\fBfirst\fP, \fBlast\fP and \fBall\fP. If
\fBtimefuzz=nearest\fP (see below) 
is used, \fItime_range\fP must contain
just a single value.
Default: \fBall\fP.
.TP
\fBpartcyc=\fIinterval\fP
Select one out of every \fIinterval\fP particle frames within
\fItime_range\fP; if \fB0\fP, select none.  Default: \fB1\fP,
which selects all.
.TP
\fBdiagcyc=\fIinterval\fP
Select one out of every \fIinterval\fP diagnostic frames within
\fItime_range\fP; if \fB0\fP, select none.  Default: \fB1\fP,
which selects all.
.TP
\fBamnesia=t|f\fP
Set it to true if you don't want history records to be in the output
file. Default: \fBfalse\fP.
.TP
\fBcheckall=t|f\fP
Set it to true if you really want to be sure all snapshots are checked
if to be copied. This keyword must be set to true when the input 
snapshot is not sorted in time. By setting it to false, it can speed
up scanning enormously. Default: \fBfalse\fP.
.TP
\fBtimefuzz=\fI
Fuzzyness allowed in comparing times requested for output, and actual
times in snapshot. The special string value "\fBnearest\fP" is also
allowed to output the snapshot closest to the requested time. In this
case, the \fBtimes=\fP keyword cannot contain ranges.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapsample(1NEMO), snapmask(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH BUGS
For \fBtimes=last\fP you should not use a pipe in the input stream, i.e.
\fBin=-\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.ta +1i +4i
.nf
xx-xxx-8x	V1.0 Created	JEB
xx-mar-89	V1.2 keyword amnesia= added	JEB
12-apr-89	V1.3 keyword checkall= added	PJT
5-maa-98	V1.6 added first/last times	PJT
14-sep-02	V2.0 support multiple output files	PJT
31-dec-03	V2.1 timefuzz= implemented	PJT
.fi
