.TH SNAPROTATE 1NEMO "22 September 2008"
.SH NAME
snaprotate \- rotate N-body snapshot file about principle axes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnaprotate in=\fPsnap-file \fBout=\fPsnap-file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnaprotate\fP rotates the positions and velocities of an
N-body snapshot file. A maximum of 3 rotations around either the x, y or
z axes can be applied in any order. An Eulerian rotation
is a rotation around the z, y and z axes respectively. Some common examples
for projections of barred and unbarred galaxies are given in the examples
below.
.PP
The rotation is counter clock-wise (i.e., mathematically positive, unless 
\fBinvert=f\fP is used) as seen from the right-handed \fIxyz\fP-axes;
a \fBz\fP rotation will rotate the \fBx\fP axis towards the \fBy\fP axis;
a \fBy\fP rotation will rotate the \fBz\fP axis towards the \fBx\fP axis;
a \fBx\fP rotation will rotate the \fBy\fP axis towards the \fBz\fP axis.
.PP
An alternate way to specify rotations is using the \fBspinvector=\fP keyword,
where all points are rotated around this vector.
.PP
Although by default all vectors are rotated by the same matrix, the
keyword \fBselect=\fP can be used to select any set of Position,
Velocity or Acceleration.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized; they may be given in any order.
.TP 24
\fBin=\fP\fIsnap-file\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap-file\fP, which must be in snapshot format.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIsnap-file\fP
Output data is written to \fIsnap-file\fP.
.TP
\fBtheta=\fP\fIx-angle\fP
Angles (in degrees) to rotate particles about the specified axes in the
\fBorder=\fP keyword. Up to 3 rotations can be applied. 
Default: none.
.TP
\fBorder=\fP\fItrans-order\fP
Order to apply the rotations about the three coordinate axes.
An Eulerian rotation would be \fBorder=zyz\fP. Default is none.
See also the \fBspinvector\fP keyword below for an alternate way
to specify rotations.
.TP
\fBinvert=\fP\fIinvert-flag\fP
If \fBtrue\fP, invert specified transformation.
Useful for rotating something back to original coordinate system.
Default is \fBfalse\fP.
.TP
\fBtscale=\fP\fIt-scale-factor\fP
If used, this is the degrees per time-unit that the \fBtheta\fP angles
are multiplied with in order to calculate the actual rotation angle.
This can give interesting effects if used for simulations.
Default not used.
.TP
\fBspinvector=\fP\fIx,y,z\fP
Use this vector if you know the vector to rotate around instead of a set
of euler angles. Only one angle \fBtheta=\fP is needed. Positive rotation
is a counterclockwise rotation as seen down the spin vector towards the
origin. The vector does not need to be normalized.
**note this option still disables various other options
such as tscale, invert
.TP
\fBselect=\fP\fIvec1,vec2,...\fP
Vector variables in a snapshot that should be rotated. Valid options
are: \fBpos\fP, \fBvel\fP,  and \fBacc\fP. Exact match required for now.
[Default:  \fBpos,vel,acc\fP]
.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose you have a barred galaxy model, \fIbar.dat\fP, 
with the galactic plane at z=0
and the bar along the y axis (\fI"position angle=0"\fP), 
and want to project this (such that z=0 will be the sky plane,
and the positive z-axis pointed towards the observer) with given final 
position angle ($pa), inclination ($inc) and angle from line of nodes
to bar ($phi) the following rotations will do the job:
.nf
    set pa=39
    set inc=-45
    set phi=-34
    snaprotate bar.dat n7476.dat "atand(tand($phi)/cosd($inc)),$inc,$pa" zyz
    snapplot n7476 psize="z>0?0.03:0.0"
.fi
where \fBpsize\fP was choosen such that ``near'' (z>0) 
particles were plotted a bit bigger to accentuate
the near side of the model. Flipping the sign if $inc will flip the near
and far side.
.PP
For 'normal' spiral galaxies the following example shows how to
project them into their normaly sky view, taking the sense of
rotation into account:
.nf
   set pa=170             # M51, use pa=-160 for M33
   set inc=22             # M51, use inc=30 for M33
   set sign=-1            # M51, use sign=1 for M33
   set sinc=`nemoinp "iflt($sign,0,$inc,-$inc)"`
   mkdisk - 1000 sign=$sign |\\
      snaprotate - - theta=$sinc,$pa order=yz |\\
      snapgrid - velfie.ccd mom=-1
   nds9 velfie.ccd        # view the velocity field using 'ds9'
.fi
With sign=-1 it will create a counter-clockwise rotating disk
and project it using \fB$inc,$pa\fP, For a clock-wise rotating disk the math is nearly
the same, except the sign for the inclination needs to be flipped, 
or \fB-$inc,$pa\fP, 
hence the somewhat awkward looking expressing to compute \fBsinc\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
snapshift(1NEMO), snapscale(1NEMO), snapspin(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes, Peter Teuben
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
xx-jan-88	V1.0 original                   	JEB
3-oct-88	V2.1 eulerian angles (order=zyz)	PJT
17-feb-89:      V2.1a new get+snap macros redef's	PJT
27-nov-89:	V2.1b cosmetic defv[]             	PJT
15-nov-90	V3.0 theta is now an array keyword	PJT
1-jun-92	documented the rotation manner bit more precise     	PJT
11-jun-92	V4.0 rotation now defined in math sense             	PJT
21-nov-98	V5.0 added tscale= keyword	PJT
18-nov-05	V5.1a added select=, also implemented select=acc	PJT
22-sep-08	V6.0 added spinvector=	PJT
.fi
