.TH SNAPHIST 1NEMO "27 July 1989"
.SH NAME
snaphist \- histogram of projected radii and radial velocities of a snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapscale in=\fIin_file\fP [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnaphist\fP creates a histogram of projected radii and radial velocities
of the particles in a snapshot. The histogram is weighted by the mass of
the particles.
.PP
A number of random angles can optionally be choosen for each point to be
rotated before it is projected.  A random orientation is achieved by 2
rotations: one in polar angle phi (0..2PI) followed by a random value
of cos(theta) where theta is 0..PI away from the Z axis.
The histogram counts are then normalized by \fBnrand\fP. This then means
that the histograms are completely normalized, it's integral being
the total mass.
.PP
A little on the background of this program: (dumbell)
.PP
\fIsnaphist\fP does not use \fIyapp(3NEMO)\fP yet, it produces a table,
meant for \fImongo(1LOCAL)\fP or \fItabhist(1NEMO)\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized:
.TP 24
\fBin=\fIin_file\fP
input file, in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format.  [Default: none].
.TP
\fBrad=\fIreal-array\fP
boundaries of the projected radii which should be used to construct
the histogram. [\fB0:2:0.05\fP].
.TP
\fBvel=\fIreal-array\fP
boundaries of the radial velocities which should be used to construct
the histogram. [\fB-2:2:0.1\fP].
.TP
\fBnrand=\fIint\fP
Number of random angles used for each point before it is projected.
Only positive values are used. [default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBseed=\fIint\fP
A random seed for the random number generator. A value of zero means
time of day is taken as random seed. [\fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBtab=r|v|s|rv\fP
Table needed of radii (\fBr\fP) or velocities (\fBv\fP). A scatter table
of velocity vs. radius can be obtained with \fBs\fP. 
If the option \fBrv\fP is taken, and the number
of bins in radius and velocity is the same, both radius and velocity
columns will be output. Radius in columns 1 and 2, velocity in 3 and 4.
[default: r].
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapprint(1NEMO), tabhist(1NEMO), tabplot(1NEMO)
.SH BUGS
When non-uniform bins are choosen, the centers of the bins appear in the
table, which is not exactly understandable for mongo.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/pjt/nbody   	snaphist.c snaphist.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
19-jun-89	V1.0: created          	PJT
27-jul-89	V1.1: more efficient random angles	PJT
.fi


