.TH SNAPMRADII 1NEMO "27 July 2005"
.SH NAME
snapmradii \- print lagrangian mass radii in a snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsnapscale in=\fP\fIin_file\fP [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsnapmradii\fP prints a table of the fractional lagrangian
mass-radii of a snapshot. The snapshot will be sorted internally by
increasing radius (which can be changed by using \fBsort=\fP),
there is no need to use \fIsnapsort(1NEMO)\fP
preceding this call.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized:
.TP 24
\fBin=\fIin_file\fP
input file, in \fIsnapshot\fP format.  Default: none.
.TP
\fBfraction=\fIf1,f2,...\fP
Fractional mass radii. They must be sorted and between 0 and 1
(inclusive). [Default: \fB0.1:0.9:0.1\fP]
.TP
\fBtab=t|f\fP
Output in the form of a table of mass fraction vs. radius? The normal
output mode is one snapshot per output row, with  time, and the
mass fractions
[Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
\fBlog=t|f\fP
Output the radii in logarithmic units
[Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
\fBsort=\fP\fIsort_var\fP
Sorting variable used to sort the particles. Any
\fIbodytrans(3NEMO)\fP expression can be used. Default: \fBr\fP.
Default
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows the evolution of 10% lagrangian mass radius and
outputs the result in a graph
.nf

    snapmradii snap.dat 0.05 |\\
            tabplot - xlab=time ylab="10% Mass radius"
.fi
.PP
The following example shows the cumulative mass distribution function
for the third snapshot in a large simulation, and plots it:
.nf

    snaptrim snap.dat - times=#3 | snapmradii - 0.01:0.99:01 |\\
            tabplot - xlab="Mass fraction" ylab=Radius
.fi
.SH BUGS
Doesn't handle snapshots with zero mass very well.
.PP
Doesn't deal with snapshots where there is no stars in one of the
fraction bins requested. Since linear interpolation is used, some crazy
larger radius is reported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapcenter(1NEMO), snapstat(1NEMO), snapprint(1NEMO)
.PP
W.L.Sweatman - (1993) MNRAS 261, 497.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/nbody/reduc   	snapmradii.c 
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
12-May-92	V1.0: created          	PJT
10-aug-95	V1.2: added tab= 	PJT
15-aug-96	V1.3: fixed bug which assumed total mass =1 PJT
27-jul-05	V1.5: add sort=		PJT
.fi


