.TH SNAPMODY 1NEMO "10 June 2011"
.SH NAME
snapmody \- convert snapshot to Mody's pos-vel files 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmodysnap\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsnapmody\fP converts snapshot-style datasets from
the \fIn-mody\fP MOND N-body integrator to a standard
NEMO \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP. 
.PP
It is also automatically called by \fIrunmond(1NEMO)\fP
to convert the input conditions, from \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP
format, into the format that the \fIrmond\fP program
understands.
.PP
Note: this program is forced
to convert to single precision, even if the input dataset
is in double precision.
.PP
Output files from QuMond are the same as MODY files, except
they don't carry a header.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input snapshot file. No default.
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output  mody pos-vel file (moutXX.bin style).
.TP
\fBout2=\fP
If given, this NEMO history of the input dataset is written here. Default: none
.TP
\fBswap=t|f\fP
Swap bytes in each int/float if endianism differs .
Not implemented yet.
.TP
\fBheader=t|f\fP
Write a header?  Needed for MODY style, but e.g. QuMOND only carries
particle information.
Default: true
.SH CAVEAT
Will only process the first snapshot.
.SH SEE ALSO
rungb, rmond, runmond(1NEMO), modysnap(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
$NEMO/src/nbody/io/snapmody.c  -- code
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
25-Feb-09	V1.0 Created 
10-mar-09	V1.1 added out2=	PJT
10-jun-11	V1.2 added header=	PJT
.fi
