.TH STARLAB 1NEMO "27 December 2023"

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B program -opt [val]  .\!.\!.
.br
.B program --help

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Starlab is a software package for simulating the evolution of dense
stellar systems and analyzing the resultant data. It is a collection
(currently about 200)
of loosely coupled programs (``tools'') linked at the level of the
UNIX operating system. The tools share a common data structure and can
be combined in arbitrarily complex ways to study the dynamics of star
clusters and galactic nuclei. 

Starlab features the following basic modules: 

* Three- and four-body automated scattering packages, constructed
  around a time-symmetrized Hermite integration scheme.

* A collection of initialization and analysis routines for use with
  general N-body systems.

* A general Kepler package for manipulation of two-body orbits.

* N-body integrators incorporating both 2nd-order leapfrog and
  4th-order Hermite integration algorithms.

* Kira, a general N-body integrator incorporating recursive coordinate
  transformations, allowing uniform treatment of hierarchical systems
  of arbitrary complexity within a general N-body framework.

* SeBa, a stellar and binary evolution package, allowing to follow in
  time the evolution of any star or binary from arbitrary start
  conditions. The package is fully implemented within kira in a
  comprehensive and transparent fashion (versions 3.0 and above).

A novel aspect of Starlab is its very flexible external data
representation, which guarantees that tools can be combined in
arbitrary ways, without loss of data or internally-generated
comments. Thus, two tools connected by UNIX pipes may operate on
different portions of the same data set, even though neither
understands the data structures, or even the physical variables, used
by the other. Unknown data are simply passed through unchanged to the
next tool in the chain.



.SH "EXAMPLES"

1. Create a 500-particle Plummer model, with numbered stars, scaled to standard dynamical units
.EX

    makeplummer -n 500 -i

.EE

2. Create a 500-particle W0 = 5 King model with a Miller-Scalo mass
spectrum between 0.1 and 20 solar masses, then rescale to unit total
mass, total energy -0.25, and virial ratio 0.5 and display the results
graphically

.EX

    makeking -n 500 -w 5 -i -u \\
	| makemass -F Miller_Scalo -l 0.1 -u 20 \\
	| scale -m 1 -e -0.25 -q 0.5 \\
	| xstarplot -l 5 -P .5

.EE

3. Perform a series of 100 3-body scattering experiments involving an
equal-mass circular binary and a double-mass incomer, with impact
parameter equal to the binary semimajor axis, relative velocity at
infinity half that needed for zero total energy, and all other
parameters chosen randomly, and display the results as a movie

.EX

    scatter3 -m 0.5 -e 0 -M 1 -r 1 -v 0.5 \\
             -n 100 -C 5 -D 0.1 \\
	| xstarplot -l 4

.EE

.SH "INSTALL"

Within NEMO the command
.EX

   mknemo starlab

.EE
should be able to install starlab. See $NEMO/src/scripts/mknemo.d/starlab for the implementation.


.SH "FILES"
.nf
$NEMO/src/scripts/mknemo.d/starlab - example install script (can be run via mknemo)
$NEMO/local/starlab - root of source code after install
https://github.com/amusecode/Starlab/ - source code since 2022/23
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
nemo(1NEMO), zeno(1NEMO)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Piet Hut, Steve McMillan, Jun Makino,  Simon Portegies Zwart


.SH "HISTORY"
Starlab was preceded by NEMO, and arguably succeeded by AMUSE.
.nf

1.0, the original version, June 1993
1.1, bug fixes and enhancements to 1.0, March 1994
2.0, January 1995
2.1, first version of kira, mid-1995
3.0, initial implementation of stellar and binary evolution, mid-1997
4.0, major internal reorganization and algorithm development
4.4.4 starlab preserved via github (2022/23)
.fi
