.TH STOA 1NEMO "9 November 1992"
.SH NAME
stoa, stoa_sp \- convert structured binary N-body file to ascii format
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBstoa in=\fPsnap_file \fBout=\fPascii_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIstoa\fP converts a structured binary file containing one or more
N-body frames into an ascii format.  Most commonly, \fIstoa\fP is used
to generate input files for remote supercomputers.  \fIstoa_sp\fP is
similar, but uses single precision.
.PP
Snapshots which contain diagnostics are ignored.
.PP 
Another alternative to printing out an ASCII list of body variables
is \fIsnapprint(1NEMO)\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 25
\fBin=\fIsnap_file\fP
Input data is read from \fIsnap_file\fP, which must be 
in \fIsnapshot\fP(5NEMO) format.  Default: none.
.TP
\fBout=\fIascii_file\fP
Converted output data is written to \fIascii_file\fP.  Default: none.
.TP
\fBoptions=\fIoption_list\fP
Specifies what data are written to output file; currently one or more
of \fBmass\fP, \fBphase\fP, or \fBphi\fP.  Default: \fBmass,phase\fP.
.TP
\fBiformat=\fIformat_string\fP
Specify output format for integers. Note the
extra space in front of the format. Default: \fB%d\fP.
.TP
\fBrformat=\fIformat_string\fP
Specify output format for real numbers. Note the
extra space in front of the format. Default: \fB%21.13E\fP.
.SH "ASCII-205 FILE FORMAT"
The ascii output file will have the following format:
.sp 1
.nf
.ta +1.5i
NOBJ                    	number of particles [integer]
NDIM                    	number of dimensions [integer]
TIME                    	time of snapshot [real]
MASS(i)                 	particle masses, i = 1...NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .
X(i) Y(i) Z(i)          	particle positions, i = 1...NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .
U(i) V(i) W(i)          	particle velocities, i = 1...NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .
PSI(i)                  	particle potentials, i = 1...NOBJ [real]
  . . . . .
.fi
.sp 1
Note that the masses, phase-space coordinates, and potentials are all
optional, enabled by the \fBoptions\fP parameter. This format may be
repeated until end-of-file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
atos(1NEMO), rsf(1NEMO), tsf(1NEMO), snapprint(1NEMO), filestruct(3NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO).
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua E. Barnes, Peter Teuben
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +3.5i
 7-Apr-87	V 1.0: created    	PJT
11-May-88	V 2.0: created    	JEB
9-nov-92	V2.3 make it skip diagnostics	PJT
.fi
