.TH STOO 1NEMO "8 February 2012" 

.SH "NAME"
stoo \- convert snapshot to orbit

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fBstoo in=\fPsnapshot \fBout=\fPorbit [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBstoo\fP selects one or more bodies from a snapshot file
and converts it to orbit format. Orbits are
stored sequentially, the Key field in the snapshot is used to
identify the particle making this orbit. If no Key field is present,
the first body has key 0.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. If in a pipe, the
number of snapshots to be converted to orbits needs to be
given via \fBnsteps=\fP, see below. [no default]
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, will be in \fIorbit(5NEMO)\fP format [no default]
.TP
\fBibody=\fInumber\fP
ranking \fInumber\fP of the star in the snapshot file,
normally the Key field.  Multiple stars can be selected here,
e.g. 0:1000:10 in the usual \fInemoinp(3NEMO)\fP notation.
However, all orbits need to be allocated in memory. Use a negative
number to process all bodies.
[default: \fB-1\fP].
.TP
\fBnsteps=\fInumber\fP
\fInumber\fP of timesteps to be allocated. Use 0 to allow the program
to scan the input snapshot. However, if the input is from a pipe,
\fBnsteps\fP needs to be given the (maximum) number of steps allowed.

[default: \fB0\fP].

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Here is an example of producing a large snapshot, in single precision, with
\fIgyrfalcon(1NEMO)\fP. Since currently \fIstoo(1NEMO)\fP cannot read such
single precision Positon/Velocity yet, they need to be converted via
\fIsnapcopy(1NEMO)\fP. Some timings are given.  The input snapshot is 430MB,
the output snapshot and orbit file are 860MB.
.nf

   mkplummer p10k 10000
   gyrfalcON p10k p10k.out tstop=100 step=0.1 kmax=8 eps=0.1 give=mxvap > p10k.log

   /usr/bin/time snapcopy p10k.out tmp.out
   2.52user 0.48system 0:03.02elapsed 99%CPU


   /usr/bin/time stoo tmp.out tmp.orb -1
   1.60user 1.04system 0:02.65elapsed 99%CPU

   /usr/bin/time orbstat tmp.orb > tmp.orb.log
   0.49user 0.23system 0:00.73elapsed 99%CPU

.fi

Data-wide this "Particle-Attribute-Time" dataset  is 10000 x 11 x 1000 in this case,
but at various stages dimensions are shuffled around rather haphazardly, and
does not scale well for large numbers of particles and/or times.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapshot(5NEMO), orbit(5NEMO), orblist(1NEMO), otos(1NEMO), orboom(1NEMO)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "FILES"
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/orbit/misc   	stoo.c
.fi

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
27-jul-87	V1.0 created	PJT
8-jun-88	V2.1 new filestruct	PJT
23-jun-91	V2.4 fixed bugs, upgraded doc for NEMO2 	PJT
24-jul-2013	V3.0 added support for multiple orbits and use Key	PJT
11-nov-2015	V3.1 efficient version without rewinding file	PJT
6-feb-2022	V3.3 process all particles by default, init I1	PJT
.fi
