.TH SUPER1 1NEMO "24 June 1997"
.SH NAME
super, supergp, superst \-  particle-mesh code with high-resolution subgrids (superbox)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsuper\fP 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsuperbox\fP is an efficient code for collisionless galactic dynamics.
It is an improved particle-mesh code with high resolution sub-grids focused
either on the center of mass or center of density of the galaxies. It can
treat an arbitrary number of galaxies without requiring extra computational
resources. It is  a fast and low-storage algorithm that can be used even on
small PCs and workstations.
.PP
\fBsuper\fP can contain cosmological.
\fBsupergp\fP include galactic potential.
\fBsuperst\fP include sticky particles code.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
$NEMO/usr/superbox
.fi
The main files associated with the run are (notice the basename 'galaxy' is fixed by the code):
.nf
.ta +2i
name		small file with the name of the simulation (e.g. modelxy)
modelxy.CONT	input data
modelxy.CONT0	??
modelxy.CONT1	??
modelxy.HEAD	output summary of runtime-calculated quantities per timestep
modelxy.DTENS	??
modelxy.ITENS	??
modelxy.LOG	logfile
modelxy.adat	??
modelxy.edat	??
modelxy.dens	??
modelxy.potn	??
modelxy.star	??
modelxy.out	??

bla	blabla
.fi
.PP
Initial conditions is a direct-access file. The first header contains
60 integers (only some are used), followed by 60 reals. After this the data
for each star is followed, only the phase space coordinates are needed
(x,y,z,vx,vy,vz), in records of 6 reals..
.nf
 ih(1)	number of galaxies (gnum)
 ih(2)	total number of stars (istno)
 ....

 fh(1)	size of inner grid (rcore)
 fh(2)	size of middle grid (rout)
 fh(3)	size of local universe (rsystem)
 fh(4)	size of time-step (dt)
 .....

.fi
Here are the fortran-style I/O used in the code. Notice the tricky multiple
OPEN/CLOSE for the different record lengths:
.nf
    integer ih(60)
    real    fh(60), posvel(6)

    open (1,ACCESS='DIRECT',RECL=240,IOSTAT=iso)
    write (1,rec = 1) ih 
    write (1,rec = 2) fh 
    close(1)

    open (1,ACCESS='DIRECT',RECL=24,IOSTAT=iso)
    do i=1,nstar
       ...
       write(1,rec=20+i) posvel
    end do
    close(1)
.fi
.SH COMPILATION
Note that the maximum grid size and maximum amount of particles are hardcoded
during compilation. See comments in \fBrjinclude.h\fP how to change the
maximum grid size and the parameter \fBmbod\fP in
\fBgalaxy.f\fP for the maximum particle number that can be used.
.SH BENCHMARKS
1000 particles...
.SH SEE ALSO
unfio(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), super(8NEMO)
.PP
.nf
Fellhauer et al (2000)
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
M. Fellhauer, P. Kroupa, H. Baumgardt, R. Bien, C.M. Boily, R. Spurzem, N. Wassmer
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
??		V2.4 older version, w/ sticky particles, black holes, comoving coords
1997		V3.0 new improved, but without some previous features
4-mar-06	NEMO documented	PJT
18-mar-06	V3.3.1 imported for NEMO
.fi
