.TH TAB2XML 1NEMO "13 February 2004"
.SH NAME
tabcols \- Select columns, and output a VOTable (xml) file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fPtab2xml\fP [parameter=value] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtab2xml\fP selects columns from a file, and outputs
the columns in VOTable format.
.PP
To select lines, use \fItablines(1NEMO)\fP or \fItabmath(1NEMO)\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input ascii table. No default.
\fBout=\fP
output VOTable. No default.
.TP
\fBcol=\fP
list of columns to select. Any \fInemoinp(1NEMO)\fP  expression can be used.
Columns can be repeated, and in any order. The output will be in exactly
the same order as given with this keyword. First column is 1.
[all]    
.TP
\fBcolnames=\fP
Column names. Not implemented yet.
.SH EXAMPLE
Here are two examples of converting a table, first the whole table with
default column names, then one selecting columns and giving them proper names
.nf
    tab2xml a.tab a1.xml
    tab2xml a.tab a2.xml col=4,8:10 colnames=z,ax,ay,az
.fi
.SH LIMITATION
Currently can only do a subset of the \fIVOTable(5NEMO)\fP version 1.0 standard,
as shown below:
.nf
<?xml version='1.0'?>
<!DOCTYPE VOTABLE SYSTEM 'http://us-vo.org/xml/VOTable.dtd'>
<VOTABLE version='1.0'>
<!--
 !  VOTable written by NEMO's tab2xml program
 !-->
<RESOURCE>
<TABLE name="a.tab">
<FIELD datatype="double" name="col1"/>
...
<DATA>
<TABLEDATA>
  <TR>
    <TD>0.666451</TD>
    ...
  </TR>
  ...
</TABLEDATA>
</DATA>
</TABLE>
</RESOURCE>
</VOTABLE>
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
tabcols(1NEMO), tabmath(1NEMO), awk(1), VOTable(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
src/kernel/tab/tab2xml.c   source code
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
13-feb-04	V1.0 Created 	PJT
.fi
