.TH TABBLEND 1NEMO "1 January 2012"
.SH NAME
tabblend \- create (blended) gaussian profiles and bin them
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtabblend\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtabblend\fP creates a blended line spectrum of gaussians, 
bins them, optionally with hanning smoothing and outputs a table that
can be compared with observations, or be fitted with
\fItabnllsqfit(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
After a raw spectrum is computed on the grid specified by \fBs=\fP,
it can be optionally smoothed using \fBfwhm=\fP, after which
it is binned on the grid specified by
\fBg=\fP.  This binning can be done in a number of ways
(e.g. see \fBbin=\fP below).
Note that both grids need to be regular (use the notation
\fImin:max:step\fP) and \fImin<max\fP. An optional simple (0.5,1,0.5)
hanning smoothing can be applied. As last step before output noise
can be added.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBx=\fP\fIx1,x2,...\fP
X coordinates of the centroid(s) line(s). Multiple
coordinates can be given here. There is no default, at least one
value needs to be specified here.
.TP 
\fBa=\fP\fIa1,a2,...\fP
Amplitudes for each line. 
If not enough values are given, the last value repeats. 
The number of values should be the same as those in \fBx=\fP.
[1]
.TP
\fBd=\fP\fId1,d2,...\fP
FWHM of the lines (FWHM=2.355*sigma).
If not enough values are given, the last value repeats. 
The number of values should be the same as those in \fBx=\fP.
[1]  
.TP
\fBs=\fP\fImin:max:step\fP
Points where to sample the lines. 
The values need to be regular and increasing.
Use \Bmode=0\fP with specified \fBx,a,d,s\fP to
look at the raw spectrum.
[Default: -16:16:0.01]    
.TP
\fBg=\fP\fImin:max:step\fP
Points where to lay the grid for binning.
The values need to be regular and increasing,
these values are the midpoint of their cells, not
the edges.
(see \fBbin=\fP).
[Default: -16:16:1]    
.TP
\fBfwhm=\fP
If non-zero, smooth the raw points with a gaussian beam with given FWHM. [0]
.TP
\fBbin=t|f\fP
Use the simple way of binning by using a fine sample grid and sprinkling 
them into the bins? Or properly integrate the sample grid onto the bins?
The latter prevents edge effect if Sample and Grid are commensurate.
Default: t
.TP
\fBhanning=t|f\fP
Optional hanning applied to the gridded data. [Default: f]
.TP
\fBfft=t|f\fP
Use FFT to compute observed spectrum? (not implemented yet).
.TP
\fBrms=\fP
RMS value for the noise added to the spectrum before output.
This can be done to either raw (mode=0) or binned (mode=1)
spectrum.
[Default: 0]
.TP
\fBseed=\fP
The usual random seed (see also \fIxrandom(1NEMO)\fP). 
[Default: 0]
.TP 
\fBmode=\fP
Output mode. 0 will output the raw spectrum before smoothing 
and binning etc.   1=will output the final spectrum, after 
all binning and noise addition. 
[Default: 1]
.SH EXAMPLES
plotting triplet of gaussians, moderately blended and binned :
.nf
  \fBtabblend x=-4,0,2 a=0.5,1,0.5 | tabplot - line=1,1 point=2,0.1\fP
.fi
and fitting a single gaussian
.nf
  \fBtabblend x=0 d=2.355 | tabnllsqfit - fit=gauss1d\fP
  ### Warning [tabnllsqfit]: No initial estimates for gauss1d, attempting to get some
  Fitting a+b*exp(-(x-c)^2/(2*d^2)):  
  a= -2.28081e-05 1.99529e-05 
  b= 0.960098 9.51577e-05 
  c= 1.11565e-20 0.000118163
  d= 1.04196 0.000121485
  rms2/chi2= 3.1717e-07
.fi
Note the width d=1.04 is about 4% higher than expected due to some moderate binning.
.PP
To view a the line and the residuals from the fit:
.nf
  \fBtabblend x=0 d=2.355 rms=0.1 | tabnllsqfit - fit=gauss1d out=- | tabplot - 1 2,3 line=1,1 color=2,3\fP
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
tabplot(1NEMO), tabnllsqfit(1NEMO), tabmath(1NEMO)
.SH FILES
NEMO/src/kernel/tab : tabblend.c
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
21-dec-2011	V0.1 Created	PJT
30-dec-2011	V0.5 added rms to both mode=0 and mode=1	PJT
1-jan-2012	V0.8 added bin= 	PJT
.fi
