.TH TABCOG 1NEMO "20 May 2025"

.SH "NAME"
tabcog \- integrate a sorted table, using the Curve of Growth method

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBtabint\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBtabcog\fP integrates a function Y=F(X) that is defined by a set of (X,Y) points
selected from two columns from an ASCII table using a Curve of Growth (CoG)
method (see Yu et al. 2020).
.PP
In this method the cumulative integral ("flux") is computed from a central point
and the two are then added to compute the total integral. This central is automatically
determines, but can be pre-set using the \fBxc=\fP keyword.
.PP
A novel way is using to determine the error in the integral, by using the RMS in the
portion of the X-axis where there is no signal. See eq.(5) in Yu2020.
.PP
See also \fItabint(1NEMO)\fP for a more traditional approach.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input table file.
.br
No default.
.TP
\fBxcol=\fP
Column with sorted X coordinates. If the X coordinates are not increasing, the
array will be reversed.
.br
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBycol=\fP
Column with Y coordinate of the function
.br
[Default: 2]

.TP
\fBxc=\fP
Center
.br
By default it will be estimated automatically.

.TP
\fBxmin=\fP
If given, value below which data to be discarded
.br
By default it uses the smallest datapoint from the table.
.TP
\fBxmax=\fP
If given, value above which data to be discarded
.br
By default it uses the largest datapoint from the table.
.TP
\fBtol=\fP
Tolerance needed to reach the flat portion of the cumulative
flux distribution.
.br
[Default: 0.1]

.SH "EXAMPLES"

Here we create a gaussian signal, and first integrate the numerically correct integral
when no noise is added, after which some noise is added and the CoG method is used to
analyze the signal and compute the flux and error in the flux

.EX
nemoinp 1000:2000:5 |\\
   tabmath - - 'exp(-(%1-1500)**2/(2*50**2))' | tabint -
125.331

nemoinp 1000:2000:5 |\\
   tabmath - - 'exp(-(%1-1500)**2/(2*50**2))+rang(0,0.01)' seed=123 |\\
   tabcog -
flux     = 125.607
flux_std = 0.493996
vel      = 1495.92
vel_std  = 12.8628
A_F      = 1.24842
A_C      = 1.42753
C_V      = 5.8
rms      = 0.0107146
bchan    = 60
echan    = 138
width[0.25] = 25 +/- 5.00625
width[0.65] = 85 +/- 10.0361
width[0.75] = 115 +/- 5.13055
width[0.85] = 145 +/- 10.1046
width[0.95] = 195 +/- 5.3668
.EE

The flux should be 'sqrt(2*pi)*50' = 125.331

.SH "SEE ALSO"
tabint(1NEMO), table(5NEMO)
.PP
https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2020ApJ...898..102Y/abstract

.SH "ADS"
@ads 2020ApJ...898..102Y

.SH "FILES"
src/kernel/tab

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
19-may-2026	V0.1 Cloned off tabint, aided by Claude	PJT
.fi
