.TH TABCOMMENT 1NEMO "25 April 2023"

.SH "NAME"
tabcomment \- Add comments to a table, or comment certain lines, or show just comments

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBtabcomment\fP \fBin=\fP \fBout=\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fItabcomment\fP comments selected lines of a text file.
.PP
A comment line is a line that starts with a \fB#\fP symbol, and is
recognized as such by many NEMO and other kind of programs.
.PP
Comment lines can be selected as lines that are blank,
start with an alpha or start with punctuation (
in particular the functions 
\fIisspace\fP, \fIisalpha\fP and \fIispunct\fP
from \fIctype(3)\fP are used to detect this, always
skipping initial whitespace of course)
Individual control over each of these types can be given, see below.
.PP
Other common comment characters are:   ;  !  C  /, but they are all caught
with these defaults.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input ascii table. No Default.
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
output ascii table. No Default. Use "out=-" if \fIstdout\fP is preferred.
.TP 20
\fBalpha=t|f\fP
Comment lines that start with alpha? See \fIisalpha(3)\fP [Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP 20
\fBblank=t|f\fP
Comment blank lines (lines that only contain
blanks, see \fIisspace(3)\fP) [Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBpunct=t|f\fP
Comment lines that start with a punctuation character, except the + or -.
(neither control nor alphanumeric, see also \fIispunct(3)\fP).
[Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBdelete=t|f\fP
Delete comment lines from output? [Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBraw=t|f\fP
In raw mode only the comments are shown. [Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBcomment=\fP
The actual comment character to be used at the beginning of the line.
Although it is not adviced to use anything but the '#' symbol, the
'!' and ';' characters have also been popular as a choice for
comment characters. Default: \fB#\fP.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Historically this program was written because some programs could not deal with
comments in tables, thus we often wind up with constructs such as
.nf

      program1 | tabcomment - delete=t | program2
.fi
but especially if the tail end of the pipe has to filter down to numbers, the
\fItxtpar(1NEMO)\fP can be useful.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
tr(1), grep(1), isalpha(3), txtpar(1NEMO), table(5NEMO), ascii(7)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
01-aug-1992	V1.0 Created	PJT
14-sep-1992	V1.1 added delete=; also updated man	PJT
20-may-1993	updated man	PJT
18-oct-2004	V2.0 allow change of comment character	PJT
10-apr-2022	V2.1 new table I/O, add raw=, default out=-	PJT
27-apr-2023	V2.3 don't view + and - as punctuation		PJT
.fi
