.TH TABCMP 1NEMO "10 August 2003"
.SH NAME
tabcmp \- Student T and F test for mean and variance comparisons
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtabcmp\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
tabcmp compares two columns from two tables. It uses the Student's t-test
and f-test to  assess if their means and variances are significantly
different. It also assesses the two distributions using a non-parametric
Kolmogorov-Smirnov test.

.PP
.nf
.ta +1i
t-test  	different mean? But variances are expected to be the same
tu-test  	different mean? But variances are allowed different
tp-test   	different mean? Paired arrays
f-test    	different variances? Different arrays allowed
ks2       	non-parametric Kolmogorov-Smirnov test
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin1=\fP
First dataset, a simple ascii table. No default.
.TP
\fBin2=\fP
Second dataset. No default.
.TP
\fBcol1=\fP
Column from 1st dataset (in1=). Default: 1.
.TP
\fBcol2=\fP
Column from 2nd dataset (in2=). Default: 1.
.TP
\fBnmax=\fP
Max allocated lines in data if from a pipe. Default: 10000.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is an example to compare two gaussian distributions, fully done 
through NEMO.
First create two simple tables, random gaussian numbers with mean
0 and dispersion 1 (make sure they are not identical, or use
seed=-1 in tabmath):
.nf

    % nemoinp 1:20 | tabmath - - "rang(0,1)" all > tab1
    % nemoinp 1:20 | tabmath - - "rang(0,1)" all > tab2
    % cmp tab1 tab2
    % tabcmp tab1 tab2
    F-test: f=1.33497  prob=0.535006
    T-test: t=-0.77149  prob=0.445188
    TU-test: tu=-0.77149  prob=0.445285
    TP-test: tp=-0.796496  prob=0.435584
    KS2-test: ks2=0.15  prob=0.965485

.fi
.SH BUGS
Paired t-Test cannot handle identical arrays.
.SH SEE ALSO
tabhist(1NEMO), tabplot(1NEMO), table(5NEMO), nemoinp(1NEMO), tabmath(1NEMO)
.nf
http://www.physics.csbsju.edu/stats/KS-test.n.plot_form.html
.SH FILES
src/kernel/tab/tabcmp.c
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
7-Oct-97	V0.1 adopted from Numerical Recipes routines	PJT
8-oct-97	V0.2 added col1=,col2= and same-table processing	PJT
5-oct-00	V0.3 added KS2 test, also from NR	PJT
10-aug-03	fixed kstwo() indexing error	PJT
.fi
