.TH TABDMS 1NEMO "25 September 2013"
.SH NAME
tabdms \- Convert to HMS/DMS tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtabdms\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtabdms\fP replaces selected column(s) from a table to their
HMS/DMS format. 
.PP
Currently the format is fixed.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input file name, an ascii table. No Default.
.TP 
\fBout=\fP
output file name, an ascii table. No Default.
.TP 
\fBtodms=\fP
list of columns (1..) to convert to dms. 
Negative columns should be used if the format is to be interpreted
as ".DMS" instead of the default "D.MS". 
The D ins DMS is normally assumed to be modulo 360.
Default: none.
.TP 
\fBtohms=\fP
list of columns (1..) to convert to hms.
Negative columns should be used if the format is to be interpreted
as ".HMS" instead of the default "H.MS".
The H ins HMS is normally assumed to be modulo 24.
Default: none.
.TP 
\fBfromhms=\fP
A list of columns (1..) to convert from hms to degrees (or seconds)
[none]
.TP
\fBfromhms=\fP
A list of columns (1..) to convert from dms to seconds (or seconds)
[none]
.TP 
\fBseparator=\fP
separator between output D-M-S.S 
[Default: \fB:\fP]
.TP 
\fBscale=\fP
Scaling factor applied to degrees. If you want seconds, use 3600 here. For radians,
use \fBpi/180\fP.
[Default: \fB1\fP]
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example prints out the 4 possible ways to convert the
number "12.51" to DMS or HMS:
.nf
% echo 11.51 11.51 11.51 11.51 11.51 | tabdms - - todms=1,-2 tohms=3,-4
11:30:36.000 11:183:35:60.000 11:30:36.000 11:12:14:24.000 11.51 
.fi
Column 1 in .DMS, 2 as D.MS, 3 as .HMS, 4 as H.MS and 5 is the
original column copied.
.nf
echo 12:00:00 12:00:00 | tabdms - - fromhms=1 fromdms=2
12 180
.fi
.SH LIMITATIONS
The code is compiled with a maximum number of columns, MAXCOL, typically
256.
.SH SEE ALSO
tabmath(1NEMO), nemoinp(1NEMO), nemoinpx(3NEMO)
.SH FILES
src/kernel/tab/tabdms.c      source code
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
24-Jan-00	V0.4 doc written	PJT
25-sep-13	V0.8 added fromdms=	PJT
.fi
