.TH TABEXTINCT 1NEMO "16 May 2005"
.SH NAME
tabextinct \- extinct a spectrum
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtabextinct\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtabextinct\fP takes a model extinction curve (defined as a simple table with
C as function of wavelength) and applies it to an input spectrum. Although
the model MUST have the wavelength and extinction in columns 1 and 2, the
columns in the input spectrum can be selected. The output is a simple table
with only two columns: wavelength and extincted spectrum.
.PP
A spline interpolation is used into the extinction curve to find the appropriate
extinction at the requested wavelenghts of the spectrum. Therefore the
extinction model should cover the whole spectrum, currently the program
does not allow otherwise. Extincton occurs with the standard formulae
.PP
.nf
        S = S0 . 10**(-0.4 * Av * C(lambda))
.fi
.PP
Using \fBxscale=\fP and \fByscale=\fP the input spectrum can be scaled
to match that of the model.
.PP
This program can also be used to multiply two curves with each other, 
using \fBextinct=f\fP.

.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBmodel=\fP
Extinction model (table with C(wave) in col 1/2)
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input spectrum table file [???]   
.TP
\fBxcol=\fP
Wavelength column for spectrum [1]   
.TP
\fBycol=\fP
Flux column for spectrum [2]   
.TP
\fBxscale=\fP
Scale factor applied to input spectrum wavelength in order to match that
of the model. [Default 1]
.TP
\fByscale=\fP
Scale factor applied to input spectrum flux for your preferred 
flux scaling. [Default: 1]
.TP
\fBxmin=\fP
(Wavelength) value below which no data are printed or used. 
This is useful if your input spectrum has a broad range you are
not interested in.
Default: not used
.TP
\fBxmax=\fP
(Wavelength) value above which no data are printed or used. 
Default: not used
.TP
\fBAv=\fP
Av to apply extinction curve with [1] 
.TP
\fBextinct=\fP
Extinction law (t), or a simple linear law (f)
[Default: t]
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
  % tabextinct model=model1.tab in=spectrum.tab Av=2.3 > spectrum23.tab
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
tabfilter(1NEMO), tabmath(1NEMO)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3i
http://www.astro.princeton.edu/~draine/dust/dustmix.html	example extincton tables
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
13-May-05	V0.1 Created on Friday 13th, so don't expect too much	PJT
16-may-06	V0.3 added xmin/xmax	PJT
.fi
