.TH TABFILTER 1NEMO "13 May 2005"
.SH NAME
tabfilter \- flux derived from convolving a filter with a spectrum
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtabfilter\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtabfilter\fP convolves a filter (in the form of
a simple table of the instrumental
spectral response as function of wavelength) with a
model or observed spectrum, and computes the resulting flux.
.PP
Example filters are in $NEMODAT/filter, and for good measure 
should contain a 0 response at the lower and upper end of the
filter.
.PP
Currently the program just integrates \int{S(l)*F(l)*dl}
and ignores any units, though filters F(l) are typically between
0 and 1 (but not necessarely peaked at 1), and wavelength l
in Angstrom. The spectrum S(l) has arbitrary units.
.PP
Using \fBxscale=\fP and \fByscale=\fP the input spectrum can be scaled
to match that of the filter. 
.PP 
Using \fBout=\fP the filtered spectrum can be output to a table,
the resulting flux is still computed but only output in debug level 0.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBfilter=\fP
Filter mnemonic (e.g. U,B,V,R,I,u,g,r,i,z,H,J,K) or full filter file name. 
See $NEMODAT/filter for current filters.
No Default.
.TP
\fBspectrum=\fP
Input spectrum table file (column 1 must contain the wavelength (in 
Angstrom), column 2 the flux. Default: not used.
.TP
\fBxcol=\fP
Column for wavelength in the spectrum [Default: 1]
.TP
\fBycol=\fP
Column for flux in the spectrum [Default: 2]
.TP
\fBxscale=\fP
Scale factor applied to input spectrum wavelength in order to match that
of the filter. [Default 1]
.TP
\fByscale=\fP
Scale factor applied to input spectrum flux for your preferred 
flux scaling. [Default: 1]
.TP
\fBxmin=\fP
(Wavelength) value below which no data are printed or used. 
This is useful if your input spectrum has a broad range you are
not interested in, but can be dangerous if this cuts into your
filter.
Default: not used
.TP
\fBxmax=\fP
(Wavelength) value above which no data are printed or used. 
Default: not used
.TP
\fBstep=\fP
Integration step in Angstrom. If too large compared to the width
of the filter, the program will stubbornly decrease it to 1/100 of
the filterwidth. Default: 1.
.TP
\fBtbb=\fP
Black Body temperature. This is needed if no spectrum is given.
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBnormalize=t|f\fP
Normalize the flux by the integral over the filter shape? [no].
.TP
\fBout=\fP
If specified, the integral (flux calculation) isn't performed, the
output contains a table of the filtered spectrum. Although the
flux is still output, it is now redirected to \fIstderr\fP instead
of \fIstdout\fP.
Default: none.
.SH EXAMPLES
What is the SDSS "g-r" color for a T=5000 star?
.nf
   % tabfilter g tbb=5000
   5000 1.46959e+10 -25.418
   % tabfilter r tbb=5000
   5000 2.15063e+10 -25.8314
   % nemoinp -25.41--25.8314 format=%.2f
   0.42
.fi
here the output of tabfilter are 3 numbers: the input Black Body temperature, 
the linear flux and the "astronomical" (-2.5log(Flux)) magnitude.
.PP
Here's a snippet of csh code to tabulate the colors for a range of
BB temperatures:
.nf
  % foreach t (`nemoinp 2000:9000:1000`)
  ?   set g=(`tabfilter g tbb=$t`)
  ?   set r=(`tabfilter r tbb=$t`)
  ?   echo $t `nemoinp $g[3]-$r[3]`
  ? end
2000 2.5357
3000 1.3928
4000 0.7875
5000 0.4134
6000 0.1615
7000 -0.018
8000 -0.151
9000 -0.2529
.fi
.PP
Here's a neat way to plot a Black Body spectrum. We are using a flat filter spectrum
(the alias filter=1 is available for this, which is defined as 1 from 1 Angstrom
to 1e9 Angstrom) and redefining xmin and xmax with out= to produce a spectrum.
Since the output is an ASCII file, it can be piped into for example 
\fItabplot(1NEMO)\fP for visual inspection:
.nf
  % tabfilter 1 tbb=1000 xmin=10 xmax=80000 step=10 out=- |\\
	tabplot - xmin=0 xmax=80000
.fi
The same could be done to a spectrum and re-interpolate it (simular to 
\fItabspline(1NEMO)\fP)
.nf
  % tabfilter 1 data.tab xmin=4000 xmax=5000 step=1 out=- | tabplot - 
.fi
.SH CAVEATS
Absolute units are not taken into account, though with xscale=,yscale= some
flexibility is possible.
.PP
The integration is a simple eulerian one, though 1A should be sufficient 
for most application. In case of doubt, check with a smaller or bigger value.
.SH SEE ALSO
tabmath(1NEMO), tabspline(1NEMO), tabint(1NEMO), filter(5NEMO)
.PP
Filters: http://voservices.net/filter/
.PP
http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.6095 : Synthetic Stellar Photometry.
.SH FILES
.fi +2i
.nf
NEMODAT/filter/ 	directory with filters
NEMODAT/filter/Fnames	translation file between short and full names
NEMODAT/vega.sed	Vega's SED useful for absolute color calibration
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
11-May-05	V0.1 Created	PJT
16-may-06	V0.6 added xmin/xmax	PJT
25-may-06	V0.8 added out=, and Vega info		PJT
.fi
