.TH TABFITS 1NEMO "13 February 2020"
.SH NAME
tabfits \- convert ascii table into FITS images
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtabfits\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtabfits\fP converts table-like files to FITS HDUs. Headers in the
table are optional, but should be the usual #-comment lines before the
real numeric data start. 
The data can be either taken
from one specific column, or read continuesly from all columns,
discarding any structure in the data, i.e. reading it row by row.
The image size is given as 
parameters \fBnx=\fP, \fBny=\fP and \fBnz=\fP, on the
command line, or else obtained from the header from the
usual FITS-like NAXISn keywords.
.PP
For a proper astronomical WCS you will need to make sure that your
FITS style header (see EXAMPLES below) has the correct
CTYPE (see e.g. worldpos(3NEMO)). The default is currently
observer unfriendly (theory friendly).
.PP
It is currently not possible to interchange the axes, you have to use 
\fIccdflip(1NEMO)\fP for this.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input table file with options commented directives for fits header
conversion. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output fits file. No default.
.TP
\fBdcol=\fP
Column for data. Use 0 if all data (columns) are to be read
continuesly. [0]
.TP 
\fBnx=\fP
X-Size of data, or else specify in the ascii header as NAXIS1
.TP
\fBny=\fP
Y-Size of data, or else specify in the ascii header as NAXIS2
.TP
\fBnz=\fP
Z-Size of data, or else specify in the ascii header as NAXIS3.
.TP
\fBnmax=\fP
Allocation space for piped I/O.
.TP
\fBscale=\fP
Scale factor by which all incoming data are multiplied for output
in the fits file. Default: 1
.TP
\fBwcs=t|f\fP
Enforce a proper FITS style WCS definition. For this the FITS header description
(see ) will need to have a valid CTYPE1 and CTYPE2 to properly
handle the sky coordinates. There is no mechanism to handle spectral axes.
Default: \fBf\fP.
.SH BUGS
All non-standard fits header keywords are copied verbosely, so be sure
to follow the FITS rules in their formatting.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is an example of an input table:
.nf
# NAXIS1  =   25
# NAXIS2  =   29
# NAXIS3  =    1 
# CDELT1  =    0.25000000000000
# CDELT2  =    0.25000000000000
# CRVAL1  =     1.0000000000000
# CRVAL2  =   -0.25000000000000
# CTYPE1  = 'Log n (/cm**3)' 
# CTYPE2  = 'Log G_0' 
# CRPIX1  =     1.0000000000000
# CRPIX2  =     1.0000000000000
#
#              / Model Parameters:
# VERSION =     1.00000
# DVDOP   =     1.50000      / Turbulent Doppler Velocity (km/s)
     1.52152E-06
     1.56927E-06
     1.57882E-06
     1.51197E-06
     1.34486E-06
...
.fi
An example how to create (some kind of) FITS header that might be useful
for tabfits can be created in the following two step procedure:
.nf

  ccdgen out=- size=512,512,1 | ccdsky - - | ccdfits - /tmp/toy.fits
  fitshead /tmp/toy.fits  | awk '{printf("# %s\n",$0)}' > /tmp/toy.fitshead
  
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
tabfits(1NEMO), tabmath(1NEMO), fits(5NEMO), wcs(1NEMO)
.SH FILES
src/image/fits/tabfits.c	source code
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
4-dec-98	V1.0 created for Wolfire's project	PJT
17-dec-98	V2.0 nxy= is now nx=,ny=; for Harris' project too	PJT
5-jan-99	V2.0a fixed header formatting bug	PJT
9-jul-00	V3.1 allow dcol=0	PJT
21-sep-05	V4.0 add wcs= to deal with real astronomers (lost?)	PJT
7-nov-2013	V3.3 add scale= 	PJT
13-feb-2020	V3.4 promote COMMENT and HISTORY from commented header	PJT
.fi
