.TH TABHIST 1NEMO "2 March 2020"
.SH NAME
tabhist \- histogram plotter and gaussian fit for tabular data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBtabhist in=\fPinfile [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fItabhist\fP plots a histogram and computes the first 
4 moments of points obtained from an (set of) column(s) from an ascii 
\fItable(5NEMO)\fP.
It calculates the mean, dispersion,
skewness and kurtosis. It then plots the data in the form of a histogram,
optionally with a 'best' gaussian fit and residuals. It can also plot
a cumulative histogram of the data (see also tabtrend(1NEMO))
.PP
The median is also optionally computed, for which an 
alternate sorting routine can be selected (if available). 
.PP
If multiple columns are used, they are appended to each other and
treated like a single long column.
If you need simple statistics for multiple columns, use \fBtabstat\fP 
instead. 
.PP
Using the \fBnsigma\fP keyword, outliers can be removed
and statistics re-computed.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIinfile\fP
input file, in tabular format [no default].
.TP
\fBxcol=\fIcolumn\fP
column(s) from which the (X) values are taken. 
Multiple columns can be given in the usual \fInemoinp(3NEMO)\fP notation
for integers. [default \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBxmin=\fIx_min\fP
Minimum value along X-axis to include 
[default: autoscaling on minimum of datapoints].
.TP
\fBxmax=\fIx_max\fP
Maximum value along X-axis to include 
[default: autoscaling on maximum of datapoints].
.TP
\fBbins=\fIn_bins\fP
If one number is given, it is the number of (equal size) bins between 
min and max.  If more than one number is given, they are the bin edges
(thus one more than the number of bins need to be supplied). One rule of thumb
is that the number of bins be the square root of the number of values.
[default: \fB16\fP].
.TP
\fBmaxcount=\fIcount\fP
Maximum count value per bin plotted along the Y-axis
[default: autoscaling].
.TP
\fBnmax=\fImax_lines\fP
Maximum number of lines allowed to read from datafile, if the data
comes from a pipe as supposed from file.  A regular file will
use the number of lines in the file as default.
[Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBylog=t|f\fP
Take log of Y-axis? This option is really redundant, since
\fItabmath(1NEMO)\fP can handle any transformation
[default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBxlab=\fIx-label\fP
Label along the X-axis [default: \fBvalue\fP].
.TP
\fBylab=\fIy-label\fP
Label along the Y-axis [default: \fBN\fP or \fBlog(N)\fP].
.TP
\fBheadline=\fItext\fP
Random verbiage, will be plotted along right top of plot for identification
[default: none].
The left top will contain the filename \fIinfile\fP.
.TP
\fBtab=t|f\fP
Table output? If false, a plot using your current \fIyapp(5NEMO)\fP
device will be given. If true, a simple ascii version of a histogram
is shown. The default choice of \fBbins=16\fP keeps all the information
on a simple 80*24 screen.
[Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
\fBgauss=t|f\fP
If true, plot output will contain
a gaussian fit. The "best" gaussian fit is the
one that has the same mean, dispersion and integrated area
as the data. [Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBresidual=t|f\fP
If true, the residual (data - fit) will be plotted as a dashed line.
[Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBcumul=t|f\fP
Plot a cumulative histogram instead. If set, the keywords gauss, residual,
and ylog are automatically re-set to false.  
[Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBnorm=t|f\fP
Normalize the cumulative histogram to 1. By default the maxcount is used.
[Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBmedian=t|f\fP
Compute median too? This can be timeconsuming for large numbers of points.
[Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBtorben=t|f\fP
Fast median calculator in case N is large. No sort will be used, but
instead an iterative O(N) method will be used.
[Default: \fBf\fP].
\fBrobust=t|f\fP
Use a robust estimator to remove outliers before taking statistics again.
[Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBmad=t|f\fP 
Also compute the Mean Absolute Deviation (MAD).
[Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBdual=t|f\fP
Dual pass over the data, subtracting the mean. This can be important
if the data have a large average value with a small spread around the mean.
Notice that in this mode the mean is subtracted but never added to
the min/max/mean/median etc. 
Default: f
.TP
\fBnsigma=\fI
Delete points more than nsigma times the sigma from the mean. After each
point sigma and mean are recomputed. [Default: none]
.TP
\fBsort=\fP\fIsort_mode\fP
.SH BUGS
Points that fall exactly on the boundary of a bin, are added to the
right side. Another way of saying is that a cell includes the left side,
but is open ended on the right side, i.e. [---). Note this behavior is
exactly opposite that of SM's behavior, which was used to compare results.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tablsqfit(1NEMO), tabmath(1NEMO), tabstat(1NEMO), tabtrend(1NEMO)
.PP
http://vostat.org
.PP
http://www.star.bris.ac.uk/~mbt/stilts/
.PP
http://arxiv.org/ps/0807.4820 (\fIchoosing the binning for a histogram\fP)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +3.0i
~/src/kernel/tab	sources
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
xx-mar-88	V1.0: created          	PJT
15-Apr-88	V1.1: higher order moments, Y scale  	PJT
1-jun-88	V2.0: new name, code same	PJT
28-oct-88	V2.0a: updated doc + labels plotting done	PJT
13-nov-93	V2.7: added gaussian model + residuals	PJT
11-jul-96	V2.8: log scale is now 10-based, not e	PJT
12-apr-97	V3.0: added cumulative option	PJT
24-apr-98	V3.0a: fix median calculation for restricted range	PJT
22-dec-99	V3.1a: optional median, fix N=1 reporting bug	PJT
24-jan-00	documentation updated with program	PJT
7-jun-01	3.2: added nsigma, corrected man page options	PJT
7-may-03	4.0: multiple columns allowed	PJT
28-jan-05	5.0: separate xmin/xmax=, added sort=, fix median if nsigma 	PJT
1-jun-10	6.0: bins= now allowed to have manual edges	PJT
22-aug-12	6.2: added torben= option for fast large-N median	PJT
16-jan-14	6.4: added mad= 	PJT
2-mar-2020	7.1: added norm=	PJT
.fi

