.TH TABINT 1NEMO "17 January 2025"

.SH "NAME"
tabint \- integrate a sorted table, optionally higher order moments

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBtabint\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBtabint\fP integrates a function Y=F(X) that is defined by a set of (X,Y) points
selected from two columns from an ASCII table.
The function can either be resampled using a spline interpolation,
or directly summed using the trapezoid rule. X values need to sorted
increasing or decreasing. 
.PP
See also \fItabhist(1NEMO)\fP with \fBcumul=t\fP for a visual display, though the
cumulative option here can also produce a table for display to check the
convergence of the integral.
.PP
An optional scale factor can be applied, which folds in any X or Y scaling that might
need to be applied. This is particularly useful if you integrate the points themselves
(i.e. without giving a \fBstep=\fP)  but still want to scale the X coordinate.
.PP
Optionally higher order moments (1 through 4) can be also computed (step=, normalize= and cumulative=
are then ignored).
.br
0: integrated sum  1: mean X value  2: dispersion in X  3: skewness (0=symmetric)  4: kurtosis (0 means normal)

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input table file.
.br
No default.
.TP
\fBxcol=\fP
Column with sorted X coordinates. If the X coordinates are not increasing, the
array will be reversed.
.br
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBycol=\fP
Column with Y coordinate of the function
.br
[Default: 2]
.TP
\fBxmin=\fP
If given, value below which data to be discarded
.br
By default it uses the smallest datapoint from the table.
.TP
\fBxmax=\fP
If given, value above which data to be discarded
.br
By default it uses the largest datapoint from the table.
.TP
\fBstep=\fP
Integration step if resampling used.
.br
By default the datapoints themselves
are used, but by setting an integration \fBstep\fP here, the function
is resampled using a spline and numerically integrated that way. See
also \fBscale=\fP.
.TP
\fBnormalize=t|f\fP
Normalize integral. If set, the integral is normalized by the integration
interval. An output table contains the cumulative function.
.br
[Default: f]
.TP
\fBcumulative=t|f\fP
If set, it will show the invidual cumulative integrations instead. Only implemented
for native steps.
.br
[Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
\fBscale=\fP
scale factor to apply to the integral. This is also to use a different step size
if integrating the individual points.
.br
[Default: 1]
.TP
\fBmom=0|1|2|3|4\fP
The moment along the profile. mom=0 is the flux, mom=1 the first moment along the X axis,
and mom=2 the dispersion.
.br
[Default: 0]

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Integrating the square function from 0 to 1 to get 1/3:
.EX

 % nemoinp 0:1:0.1 | tabmath - - '%1*%1' | tabint -
 0.335
 % nemoinp 0:1:0.1 | tabmath - - '%1*%1' | tabint - step=0.01
 0.33335

.EE
Here is an example to compute the line integral of a spectrum where the frequency axis is in GHz,
and intensity in Kelvin. We want to get an answer in K.km/s instead. We know the line is
(redshifted) around 110.5 GHz, and we take a window of 0.3 GHz around the line:
.EX

 % tabint rsr.33551.driver.sum.txt xmin=110.5-0.3 xmax=110.5+0.3  scale=c/110.5/1000
 8.05

 % tabint rsr.33551.driver.sum.txt xmin=110.5-0.3 xmax=110.5+0.3  scale=c/110.5/1000 |\\
   tabplot - 1 2 line=1,1 point=2,0.1 ycoord=0

.EE
Recall that \fBc\fP is in m/s and the requested line integral was requested in km/s.

.SH "CAVEATS"
The table needs to be (reverse) sorted in X. A future option might sort, though
\fIsort(1)\fP might already work.
Here's an example where the 3rd column is an unsorted X coordinate.
The 6th column is the data value:
.EX

   % sort -n +2 my.tab | tabint - 3 6

perhaps easier

   % tabcols my.tab 3,6 | sort -n | tabint -
.EE
All moments, expecially the higher order ones, are susceptible to the correct window if the shape
of a line feature is to be determined accurately.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
tabfilter(1NEMO), tabhist(1NEMO), tabmath(1NEMO), tabnllsqfit(1NEMO)¸ tabpeak(1NEMO), table(5NEMO)

.SH "FILES"
src/kernel/tab

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
13-May-05	V0.1 Created	PJT
10-sep-2022	V0.5 added cumulative=	PJT
22-feb-2022	V0.6 added xmin=, xmax=, scale=	PJT
31-jul-2023	V0.7 poor man's implementation of mom=	PJT
6-apr-2024	V0.9 clarifications	PJT
17-jan-2025	V1.0 added mom=3,4 options	PJT

.fi
