.TH TABLSQFIT 1NEMO "9 December 2009"
.SH NAME
tablsqfit \- general purpose least squares fitting program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBtablsqfit in=\fPtable-file [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtablsqfit\fP takes a least squares fit (minimized ChiSquared)
of a set of datapoints (x(i),y(i)) where a functional
form y=f(x;a1,a2,...,an) is assumed. The functional form to be
fitted has to be specified by name at this stage. A number of
options are possible.
.PP
The inputfile is an ascii file in a tabular format, where on every line
there must be an assigned column for the X- and Y-coordinates. An optional
column can be assigned to the errors in Y (the DY-coordinates). If no
DY-column is assigned, it is assumed that the errors in Y are all the
same and equal to 1. Lines starting with the '#' symbol are comment 
lines. Certain models (see \fBfit=\fP below) allow multiple X or Y
columns. For \fBfit=line\fP a proper goodness-of-fit is also 
computed in a second fit an error column (\fBdycol=\fP) is given.
.PP
For most linear functions the non-linear version of this program
will also work fine, and has the added power that certain parameters
can be fixed, and error estimates are returned. See \fItabnllsqfit(1NEMO)\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
(ascii) input file, a table of values from which data is taken. No default.
.TP
\fBxcol=\fIcol,...\fP
The column(s) from which the (independant) 
X-values are taken. The first column
is called 1 by definition [default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBycol=\fIcol,...\fP
The column(s) from which the (dependant) 
Y-values are taken [default: \fB2\fP].
.TP
\fBdxcol=\fIint\fP
Optional column from which the DX-values (errors in X) are taken. 
Currently only a straight line fit can use this option. See below.
.TP
\fBdycol=\fIint\fP
Optional column from which the DY-values (errors in Y) are taken. The
inverse square of the errors are uses as weights for those fits where
these are used 
[default: none assigned].
.TP
\fBxrange=\fIxmin:xmax\fP
Range in X-values for which the fit is done. If only one number is
given, the other one is considered zero.
[default: no entry, i.e. all].
.TP
\fBfit=\fP\fImodel\fP
Model name what to fit. Currently implemented are \fIline\fP, \fIplane\fP,
\fIpoly\fP, \fIellipse\fP, \fIpeak\fP, \fIzero\fP, \fIimageshift\fP, \fIarea\fP, 
\fIgauss1d\fP, and \fIgauss2d\fP.
[default: \fBline\fP].
.TP
\fBorder=\fP\fIorder\fP
Highest order of the polynomial fit (\fBfit=poly\fP) or 
dimension of the hyper-plane fit (\fBfit=plane\fP). 0 would fit
a constant. 0 and 1 would have the same meaning in both the
\fBplane\fP and \fBpoly\fP cases [Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fPout=\fIfilename\fP
Optional output filename (only active under certain options)
where the data and residuals are stored.
Column 1, 2 and 3 will contain the X, Y and residuals F(X)-Y
respectively. A future
release will also store the errors (if it was given, see 
keyword \fBdycol\fP above) in the 4th column.
[default: empty, no output file created].
.TP
\fPnsigma=\fIsigma_factor\fP
A positive number will delete points more than \fIsigma_factor\fP from the fit,
and fit again. [Default: \fB-1\fP].
.TP
\fBestimate=\fP
Optional estimate for parameters of non-linear fits
.TP
\fBnmax=\fP\fImax_lines\fP
Maximum number of lines allocated if the input file was being read
from a pipe. If not, the routine \fIfile_lines(3NEMO)\fP is used
to allocate space for the table.
[Default: \fB10000\fP].
.TP
\fBmpfit=\fP\fImode\fP
The fitting mode in which \fImpfit(3NEMO)\fP is used. 0=no errors.
1=only errors in X used  (dxcol=), 2=only errors in Y used (dycol=),
3=errors in both X and Y used. See also \fIlinreg(1NEMO)\fP.
.TP
\fBtab=t|f\fP
Output results in simple tabular format.
Default: false.
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example of creating an on-the-fly table with a straight
line, with some added noise and random weights between 1 and 2:
.nf
% nemoinp 1:100 | tabmath - - "%1+rang(0,10),ranu(1,2)" seed=123 | tablsqfit -
      a  =    0.974146       uncertainty:  0.039389 
      b  =    1.755022       uncertainty:  2.291149 
      x0 =   -1.801599       uncertainty:  2.353083
      y0 =    1.755022       uncertainty:  2.291149
      chi-squared:    12668.983284 
      goodness-of-fit:    1.000000 (no Y errors supplied [dycol=])
      r:  0.92923
      prob:  3.65557e-44
      z:  1.65272
.fi
The fitted line is written either as \fBy=ax+b\fP or alternatively
with their (x0,y0) intercepts as \fBx/x0 + y/y0=1\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
tabhist(1NEMO), tabmath(1NEMO), gaussfit(1NEMO), linreg(1NEMO), tabnllsqfit(1NEMO)
\fINumerical Recipies in C, Ch.14\fP
.PP
mpfit: http://www.physics.wisc.edu/~craigm/idl/cmpfit.html (author: Craig B. Markwardt)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/kernel/tab	tablsqfit.c
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
 5-Aug-87	V1.0 created                     	PJT
18-May-88	V1.4 various new options        	PJT
31-May-88	V2.0 'float'-> 'double' for NumRec	PJT
14-nov-91	V2.4 ellips fit and various others 	PJT
13-Mar-92	V2.5 added imageshift option    	PJT
15-nov-93	V2.6 added nmax=                	PJT
13-jun-94	V2.7 code overhaul to add line/poly	PJT
8-jun-95 	V2.8 added option fit=peak      	PJT
26-jan-98	V2.9 added goodness-of-fit for fit=line 	PJT
4-feb-98	V2.9a compute r (corr.coeff.) for line fit	PJT
14-aug-00	V3.0 added tab=                            	PJT
8-aug-01	V3.1c added area, using natof, error in ellipse	PJT
24-feb-03	V3.4: added fit=zero	PJT
21-nov-05	V3.4b: added fit=gauss1d,gauss2d	PJT
9-dec-09	V4.0: added xcol= and mpfit=	PJT
.fi

