.TH TABLST 1NEMO "1 December 1988" 
.SH NAME
tablst \- list a (binary) table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBtablst in=\fPtable-file \fBset=\fPset-name \fBcol=\fPcolname(s) [parameter=value] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fItablst\fP lists columns of a table. The table may as well be in standard
binary (\fIfilestruct(5NEMO)\fP) format as in standard ascii format.
When no binary table is found, it assumes the data is in standard ascii,
and lists the appropriate columns.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input table file, can be ascii or binary \fIfilestruct(5NEMO)\fP format. 
[no default].
.TP
\fBset=\fIsetname\fP
Name of the (first) set in the file. If no setname is given program tries 
to find the first setname. If no set is found (e.g. in case file is
a normal ascii file) is will try to handle the file
as a regular ascii table file. 
[default: first setname/ascii file].
.TP
\fBcol=\fIname(s)\fP
List of names of the columns to be printed. The list must be comma or space
separated. For a binary file the actual names of the columns are required,
for an ascii file the column numbers, 1 being the first.
[no default].
.TP
\fBskip=\fInumber\fP
Number of lines to skip in file before attempting reading data at all
[default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBstride=\fInumber\fP
A \fIstride\fP through the data can be applied, when showing the table, 
meaning every \fIstride\fPth line will be shown, starting at line number
\fIskip\fP (see previous keyword). [default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBformat=\fIexpression\fP
Format with which the column is displayed [\fB%f\fP].
.SH SEE ALSO
various tab* programs
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
27-Oct-88	V1.0 created	PJT
4-Nov-88	V1.0a set= keyword can be left empty	PJT
1-dec-88	V1.1 also allow ascii file	PJT
.fi
