.TH TABLOVAS 1NEMO "3 March 2001"
.SH NAME
tablovas \- Lovas spectral line catalogue manipulator (**preliminary**)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtablovas\fP in=\fP... [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fItablovas\fP manipulates the Lovas spectral line catalogue 
in the frequency range between 0 and about 3.4 THz
(wavelengths longer then about 0.1 mm).
.PP
Selecting \fBcol=all\fP has been specifically designed to maintain
the \fBexact\fP format of the database, such that 
subselections can be made.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input table, in fixed 132-characters-per-line format. [No default].
.TP
\fBspecies=\fP
Species to check for. The default is \fBall\fP. 
There are currently about 
155 species in the catalogue. Note names are case sensitive.
.TP
\fBcol=\fP
Columns to print out. [Default: \fBall\fP].
\fI ** Note **\fP Currently selection by column names is not active. 
You can either choose \fIall\fP, or something else, in which case 
a shorter version with only \fIname, freq\fP will be output.
.TP
\fBfreq=\fP
Frequency range to select. Two numbers are required, with an optional
third character string specifying the frequency
units given and requested (the catalogue's numbers are listed in
Mhz, and this is the default). Note that if the units of \fIfreq\fP 
are changed, so will be units of \fIerr\fP and \fPlgint\fP. 
We only support \fBMHz, GHz\fP and \fPTHz\fP. See example below. 
.TP
\fBcutoff=\fP
Lower line intensity cutoff applied to the output. 
Default: all will be printed.
\fI ** Note **: not implemented\fP 
.TP
\fBtab=\fP
Table name, in which output is gathered. Default: terminal.
\fINot implemented\fP
.SH TABLE
The format of the columns is as follows:
.TP 15
1. \fIname\fP
molecular formulae
.TP
2. \fIfreq\fP
calculated frequency, with 2 std.dev uncertainty. between brackets.
(Units: MHz).
.TP
3. \fIfreqobs\fP
measured frequency, if available.
(Units: MHz).
.TP
4. \fIelow\fP
Lower energy level (Units: cm-1)
.TP
5. \fIrqn\fP
Rotational quantum numbers
.TP
6. \fIss\fP
symmetric state (E, AA etc.)
.TP
7. \fIhqn\fP
hyperfine quantum numbers F,F1
.TP
8. \fIri\fP
Relative intensity for hfs, spin weights for CH3OCH3
.TP
9. \fIsij\fP
line strength, \fISij\fP.($S_{ij}$) For several species \fP(u**2)Sij\fP is
also listed.
.TP
10. \fIa\fP
Negative logarithm of the Einstein coefficient, \fI-log(A)\fP.
.TP
11. \fIrefs\fP
references (Roman Numerals)
.SH EXAMPLES
The following command lists all species present in the catalogue
.nf
    % tablovas in=master.lis species=all col=name | awk '{print $1}' | sort | uniq
  or shorthand:
    % tablovas master.lis all name | awk '{print $1}' | sort | uniq
.fi
\fItablovas\fP is also suitable to be chained using Unix pipes and NEMO's
convention to use \fI'-'\fP to designate a file on \fIstdin/out\fP
(see \fIgetparam(3NEMO)\fP).
.nf
    % cat master.list | tablovas  - ... | tablovas - ... | more
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
tabpp(1NEMO), awk(1), grep(1v), perl(1)

Lovas, Frank J. (1986) \fIJ.Phys.Chem.Ref.Data\fP \fB15\fP, 251.

\fIRecommended Restfrequencies for Observed Interstellar 
Molecular Microwave Transitions\fP
1991 Revision appeared in J. Phys. Chem. Ref. Data 21, pp181-272 (1992).

http://physics.nist.gov/PhysRefData/micro/html/contents.html
http://physics.nist.gov/cgi-bin/micro/table5/start.pl
.fi
.PP
http://www.splatalogue.net/
.PP
http://www.astro.uni-koeln.de/cdms/
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +1.2i
master.lis	the big database (~46575 lines)
345365.dat	small database for lines in the 345-365GHz range (634 lines)
.fi
.SH BUGS
frequency selection does not include errors in frequency determination
yet.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +0.5i +4i
29-apr-92	V1.0 Created                     	PJT
17-apr-96	documented the new URL         	PJT
3-mar-01	documented another new URL         	PJT
.fi
