.TH TABMATH 1NEMO "19 April 2001"
.SH NAME
tabmath \- general table manipulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBtabmath in=\fPtable-file \fBout=\fPtable-file  [parameter=value] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fItabmath\fP has a few simple functions to modify a file in tabular
format, similar to a spreadsheet calculator. It can handle an arbitrary
number of files, though the total number of columns (old and new) is
limited (currently 256). Column operations are most common, although
a limited number of row operations are also possible.
.PP
New columns are computed with
the keyword \fBnewcol\fP, and needs a functional description of the new
columns, usually in terms of previous columns.
Any previous columns (including the ones just created)
must be referenced by number through
an escape (\fB%\fP) command. \fIe.g.\fP \fBnewcol=sqrt(%1)\fP creates
a new column which is the \fIsqrt\fP of the first one. Valid column
references are %1 and up. Column reference to 0 (i.e. %0) is interpreted
as the line number (1 and up, excluding comment lines).
Although the escape command can also be
a dollar (\fB$\fP) sign, this creates some discomfort in a Unix
command line environment.
.PP
The keyword \fBdelcol\fP has to be used to delete computed columns,
the word \fBall\fP can be used to delete all original input columns.
.PP
Rows can also be deleted/selected based on a function evaluation of
the current column values. For this the \fBselfie=\fP keyword can
be used. It uses the same \fInemoinp(3NEMO)\fP
syntax as those for the new column
expressions. It must evaluate to exactly 0 in order for a row not to
be written. For example "\fIselfie=iflt(%1,3,1,0)\fP" would only output
rows in which the first column is less than 3.
.PP
Tablefiles are simple ascii files in a columnar format. Lines which start
with a # symbol are interpreted as comment lines and are skipped.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input (ascii) file, a table of values from which data is taken. Multiple
files must be separated by comma's. [no default].
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
Output filename where the output data are written [no default].
.TP
\fBnewcol=\fIexpression\fP
Expression with which the newly added column(s) will be calculated. Parsing
will be done by \fIfie(3NEMO)\fP, see the man pages for specific
rules. [no default].
.TP
\fBdelcol=\fIexpression\fP
\fIexpression\fP is an integer range to denote the columns not to be
copied to output, e.g. \fB3,5:10,14\fP would select columns 3, 5 through 
10, and 14.
The word \fBall\fP may also
be used, in which case all columns from the input file(s) are deleted,
and only 
[Default: not used, i.e. all columns, old and new, are output].
.TP
\fBselfie=\fIexpression\fP
Expression which must evaluate to 0 if a row is not to be output.
.TP
\fBformat=\fIexpression\fP
A (\fIprintf(3)\fP) format specification
with which the new columns are written to output [\fB%g\fP].
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fIseed\fP
Integer initial seed in case random numbers have been used in the expression.
If 0 is given, the time of the day will be used (see 
\fIxrandom(3NEMO)\fP for other special seed values)
to initialize the random number generator. [Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBcomments=f|t\fP
Should comments be passed through to the output, or discarded. By default comments
are ignored, but with comments=t they can be output unmodified also . Be careful
with multiple input files that do not have the same amount of comment lines.
.SH EXAMPLE
To use \fItabmath\fP as a function calculator, uses stdin (-) and stdout (-)
as filenames for input and output, e.g.
.nf
\fBtabmath - - "sqrt(%1)" all\fPb
.fi
Then for every number you input, it returns the function value.
.PP
Here are two examples how to create a table from scratch:
.nf
    nemoinp 1:100:2 newline=t > odd.tab
    nemoinp 1::50   newline=t > one.tab
.fo
will contain a table with all odd numbers from 1 through 99, and
another table with all 1s. Both tables have 50 rows.
.PP
Most table programs in NEMO only operate on columns. 
No functions exist yet to operate
on rows, other than selecting rows for output (see \fBselfie=\fP).
As an example to look at a running derivative between two columns,
\fIawk(1)\fP can be used as follows:
.nf

% nemoinp 1:10 | tabmath - - '%1*2+rang(0,0.1)' seed=1 | diffs.awk
2 3.94938 1 2.08013 1.5 1.86925
3 6.07426 2 3.94938 2.5 2.12488
4 8.14975 3 6.07426 3.5 2.07549
5 9.96586 4 8.14975 4.5 1.81611
6 11.8817 5 9.96586 5.5 1.91584
7 13.9754 6 11.8817 6.5 2.0937
8 16.0503 7 13.9754 7.5 2.0749
9 17.9156 8 16.0503 8.5 1.8653
10 19.8898 9 17.9156 9.5 1.9742

% cat diffs.awk
#! /bin/awk -f
#
{
  if (NR > 1) {
    print $1, $2, xold, yold, ($1+xold)/2, ($2-yold)/($1-xold);
  }
  xold = $1;
  yold = $2;
}
.fi

Here is an example to select only rows from a table where column 4
is between values $a and $b:
.nf
   tabmath file - selfie="ifgt(%4,$a,iflt(%4,$b,1,0),0)"
.fi
.SH COMMON EXPRESSIONS
Although fie(3NEMO) expressions 
are quite rich, some common boolean constructions
are hard to write down (ever written complex SQL expressions?). So,
here are some common ones. We will use a notation where P1, P2, ..
refer to the parameters 1,2,..., 
that match %1,%2,... in fie notation, and 
V1,V2,... to some arbitrary values (numbers), and R1 and R2 to the
two return values depending if the boolean expression is true (R1)
or false (R2):
.nf
.ta +3i
(P1>V1) ? R1 : R2       	ifgt(%1,V1,R1,R2)
(P1>V1 && P2>V2) ? R1 : R2	ifgt(%1,V1,ifgt(%2,V2,R1,R2),R2)
(V1<P1<V2) ? R1 : R2        	ifgt(%1,V1,iflt(%1,V2,R1,R2),R2)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
colrm(1), expand(1), awk(1), cut(1), paste(1), tablines(1NEMO), tabtranspose(1NEMO), tabplot(1NEMO), table(5NEMO)
.PP
jdb (http://www.isi.edu/~johnh/SOFTWARE/JDB/): 
a package of commands for manipulating flat-ASCII databases from shell scripts.
.PP
msort - http://www.billposer.org/Software/msort.html - sophisticated sorting 
program
.PP
starbas - http://cfa-www.harvard.edu/~john/starbase/starbase.html - an ASCII relational database for UNIX.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH BUGS
Parsing of \fBnewcol\fP expression is done by \fInemoinp(3NEMO)\fP, and 
is space sensitive. Parsing allows more than one value,
e.g. "1 _+ 1" is interpreted as two values, instead of the number 2.
"1+1" would be interpreted as 2. Hence multiple columns (with probably the
wrong value) would be created in the first example.
.PP
If comments are passed on, processing multiple input files which do not
have matching comment lines will cause the output to have odd lines.
.PP
Complex expressions where one component fails, fails the whole expression. 
An example is adding two gaussians with different widths. The one with the
narrow gaussian component will cause an internal failure (exp() argument
overflow). For example, the following expression to add two gaussians
.nf

fie="$a1+$b1*exp(-(%1-$c1)**2/(2*$d1**2)) + 
     $a2+$b2*exp(-(%1-$c2)**2/(2*$d2**2)) + 
     rang(0,$sig)"

.fi
can only be reliably be done as follows

.nf

nemoinp $x |\
   tabmath - - "$b1*exp(-(%1-$c1)**2/(2*$d1**2))" |\
   tabmath - - "$b2*exp(-(%1-$c2)**2/(2*$d2**2))" |\
   tabmath - - "%1,%2+%3+$a1+$a2+rang(0,$sig)" all

.fi

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
18-May-88	V1.0 created	PJT
1-Jun-88	V1.1 name changed nemotable->tabmath	PJT
xx-jun-88	V1.2 added stride keyword	PJT
23-aug-88	V1.3 added in2 keyword, removed stride bug	PJT
27-oct-88	V1.4 multiple new columns and %0 reference allowed	PJT
10-nov-88	V1.5 allow tab;s also as column separators	PJT
18-feb-92	V2.0 turbospeed parsing now done by fie()	PJT
13-jun-98	V3.0 deleted stride/skip keywords, added selfie=	PJT
24-feb-00	document improved	PJT/VS
18-apr-01	V3.1 added comments=	PJT
.fi
