.TH TABNLLSQFIT 1NEMO "9 October 2013"
.SH NAME
tabnllsqfit \- general purpose non-linear least squares fitting program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBtabnllsqfit in=\fPtable-file [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtabnllsqfit\fP takes a non-linear least squares fit (minimized ChiSquared)
of a set of datapoints (x(i),y(i)) where a functional
form y=f(x;p0,p1,...,pN) is assumed. The function is not required to
be non-linear in it parameters. Although a number of common pre-defined
functional forms can be selected (see \fBfit=\fP), you can also write
a small C routine, and dynamically load the fitted function during
runtime (see \fBload=\fP).
.PP
The inputfile is an ascii file in a tabular format, where on every line
there must be an assigned column for the X- and Y-coordinate(s). 
An optional column can be assigned to the errors in Y 
(the DY-coordinates, the inverse square of these being used as
a weight). If no
DY-column is assigned, it is assumed that the errors in Y are all the
same and equal to 1. Lines starting with the '#' symbol are comment 
lines. Certain models (see \fBfit=\fP below) allow multiple X or Y
columns. 
.PP
Each fit can also produce an output file with an additional column
computing the difference between the data and the model (in that order).
In the special case where the user has supplied no free parameters,
the residuals are still computed correctly.
.PP
This routine can also be used to plot the function, although only in 1D cases,
see \fBx=\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
(ascii) input file, a table of values from which data is taken. No default.
.TP
\fBxcol=\fIcol,...\fP
The column(s) from which the (independant) X-values are taken. The first column
is numbered 1 [default: \fB1\fP].
.TP
\fBycol=\fIcol,...\fP
The column(s) from which the (dependant) Y-values are taken 
[default: \fB2\fP].
.TP
\fBdycol=\fIint\fP
Optional column from which the weights will be derived. By default
this column is meant to refer to an error bar, and normally 
the inverse square of the errors are uses as weights for those fits where
these are used (see \fBdypow=\fP next).
[default: none assigned].
.TP
\fBdypow=\fIpower\fP
By changing this value, you can adjust the weights column (\fBdycol\fP).
Instead of the normal \fIweight = 1/sigma^2\fP, you will be able to use
them as \fIweight^dypow\fP. The most common use is when your
\fBdycol\fP does not refer to an error, but to the weight directly
(e.g. an intensity), in which case \fBdypow=-0.5\fP is appropriate.
[default: 1].
.TP
\fBxrange=\fIxmin:xmax,xmin:xmax,...\fP
Range in X-values for which the fit is done. A set of min:max,
separated by comma's, can be given.
This keyword cannot be used if more than one X-column is used.
[default: no entry, i.e. all].
.TP
\fBfit=\fP\fImodel\fP
Model name what to fit. Currently implemented are \fIline\fP, \fIplane\fP,
\fIpoly\fP, \fIgauss1d\fP, \fIloren\fP, and \fIexp\fP.
[default: \fBline\fP].
.TP
\fBorder=\fP\fIorder\fP
Highest order of the polynomial fit (\fBfit=poly\fP) or 
number of dimension of the hyper-plane fit (\fBfit=plane\fP). 0 would fit
a constant. 
[Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fPout=\fIfilename\fP
Optional output filename
where the data and residuals are stored.
The first few columns contain the X and Y columns, the last
column contains the residual Y-F(X). See an example below how to plot
the data with a model fit overlayed.
[default: no output file created].
.TP
\fPnsigma=\fIsigma_factor\fP
A positive number will delete points more than \fIsigma_factor\fP from the fit,
and fit again. Multiple values can be given here, in which case
multiple iterations are done.
[Default: \fB-1\fP].
.TP
\fBpar=\fP
Initial estimates for the parameters. For non-linear fits, or linear fits where
certain parameters are fixed (see \fBfree=\fP below) they need to be given here.
Some fits (e.g. gauss1d) do not require an initial estimate and attempt to come
up with a reasonable one.
Otherwise all initial parameters are 0.
.TP
\fBfree=\fP
A list of 1's and 0's to set which parameters are to be kept free (1) and which
are fixed (0). By default all parameters are free, i.e. fitted. If any
parameter is fixed, initial estimates for all need to be given (see \fBpar=\fP).
Default: all parameters free.
.TP
\fBload=\fP
If given, this should contain the full path to a compiled and 
shared object (.so) file) that contains the function to be fitted 
in terms of the \fInllsqfit\fP parameters \fIf\fP and \fIdf\fP. They
must be named \fBfunc_loadobj\fP and \fBderv_loadobj\fP
(maybe modified with fit=). See LOAD FUNCTIONS below.
.TP
\fBx=\fP
If given, these are the X-values for which the load function can be tested.
It is useful for testing and debugging your function. It will report
the X, Y and the dY/dPAR vector values. The program will exit after
this, and no fitting is done.  If the first two values are the \fBsame\fP,
a numerical derivate is computed (see below).
Default: none.
.TP
\fBnmax=\fP\fImax_lines\fP
Maximum number of lines allocated if the input file was being read
from a pipe. If not, the routine \fIfile_lines(3NEMO)\fP is used
to allocate space for the table.
[Default: \fB10000\fP].
.TP
\fBtol\fP=
Tolerance for convergence of \fInllsqfit\fP
[Default: \fB0.0\fP].
.TP
\fBlab\fP=
Mixing parameter for \fInllsqfit\fP [Default: \fB0.0\fP for linear,
\fB0.1\fP for non-linear fits].
.TP
\fBitmax\fP=
Maximum number of allowed \fInllsqfit\fP iterations [Default: \fB50\fP]
.TP
\fBformat\fP=
Output format. Default %g
.TP
\fBbootstrap\fP=
Number of bootstrap samples to take to estimate the error in the parameters.
Output off all parameters and their errors are on one line containing
the word bootstrap. Parameters and their errors are output in pairs.
Default:0
.TP
\fBseed=\fP
Initial seed. See \fIxrandom(3)\fP for more
details. Default: 0
.TP
\fBmethod=g|n|m\fP
Fitting method. Gipsy uses their \fInllsqfit(3NEMO)\fP, NumRec uses their
\fImrqfit\fP and MINPACK uses \fImpfit(3NEMO)\fP.  Only first character
is used, case insensitive.  [Default: \fBg\fP]
.SH FIT PARAMETERS
Parameters are referred to as p0,p1,p2,p3,.....
.nf
.ta +1.5i 
line     	y=p0+p1*x                        (same as poly,order=1)
plane       	z=p0+p1*x+p2*y                   (example order=2)
polynomial  	y=p0+p1*x+p2*x^2+p3*x^3...       (example order=3)
gauss1d       	y=p0+p1*exp(-(x-p2)^2/(2*p3^2))
gauss2d       	y=p0+p1*exp(-[(x-p2)^2+(x-p3)^2]/(2*p4^2))
exp		y=p0+p1*exp(-(x-p2)/p3)
grow		y=p0*(exp(x/p1)-1)
arm		y=p0+p1*cos(x)+p2*sin(x)
arm3		y=p0+p1*cos(x)+p2*sin(x)+p3*cos(3*x)+p4*sin(3*x) 
loren		y=p1/PI( (x-p0)^2 + p1^2 )
psf		y=p1*x^p2*sin(y)^p3+p4
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example of a linear fit: a straight 
line, with some added noise and random weights between 1 and 2:
.nf
% nemoinp 1:100 |\\
	tabmath - - "%1+rang(0,10),ranu(1,2)" seed=123 |\\
	tabnllsqfit - 1 2 3
nrt=0
Fitting a+bx:  
a= 1.50492 2.25695 
b= 1.00159 0.0380961
.fi
Here is an example of a 2D plane  in 3D: (1+2x+3y)
.nf

% ccdmath "" - '1+2*%x+3*%y+rang(0,0.1)' 5,5 seed=123 |\\
	ccdprint - x= y= label=x,y newline=t |\\
	tabnllsqfit - 1,2 3 fit=plane order=2
nrt=0
Fitting p0+p1*x1+p2*x2+.....pN*xN: (N=2)
p0= 1.0688 0.0523819
p1= 2.01497 0.0165646
p2= 2.97436 0.0165646


.fi
And a fit to a gaussian:
.nf
% nemoinp 1:100 |\\
	tabmath - - '4+exp(-(%1-50)**2/(200))+ranu(0,1)' seed=123 |\\
	tabnllsqfit - fit=gauss1d par=4,1,50,10
nrt=13
Fitting a+b*exp(-(x-c)^2/(2*d^2)):  
a= 4.46714 0.0416026 
b= 1.13036 0.0994723 
c= 50.2263 0.845469
d= 8.70728  0.959347
rms2/chi2= 8.92068
rms/chi = 1

.fi
Here is a contrived example of plotting the function to be plotted, by fixing all
parameters and computing a residual table from 0s:
.nf

% nemoinp 0:10:0.1 | tabmath - tab0 0
% tabnllsqfit tab0 1 2 fit=gauss par=1,2,5,1 free=0,0,0,0 out=tab0.d
% tabmath tab0.d - %1,-%3 | tabplot -

.fi

Here is an example of removing outlier points and fitting again:

.nf

% nemoinp 1:10 |\\
   tabmath - - '2*%1+1+rang(0,0.1)' seed=123 |\\
   tabnllsqfit - fit=line nsigma=1.5::3
nrt=0
Fitting a+bx:  
a= 1.09548 0.0775617 
b= 1.99937 0.0125002
2/10 points outside 1.5*sigma (0.152328)
nrt=0
Fitting a+bx:  
a= 1.02651 0.0452119 
b= 2.01358 0.00753531
0/8 points outside 1.5*sigma (0.080422)

.fi
Although 3 iterations were requested, after the first iteration no more
points were removed, and the iterations were stopped.
.PP
Here is an example of estimating the errors via a bootstrap (resampling of errors) 
method. Fitting a polynomial of order 2 and taking 100 bootstrap samples:
.nf

% tabnllsqfit tab11 fit=poly order=2 bootstrap=100
nrt=0
Fitting p0+p1*x+p2*x^2+.....pN*x^N: (N=2)
p0= 3.11325 0.192787
p1= 1.97474 0.0896959
p2= 0.00157311 0.008639
bootstrap= 3.11603 0.164922 1.96464 0.086429 0.00293632 0.00820007 
             ^^^^    ^^^^^   ^^^^^    ^^^^^    ^^^^^^      ^^^^^^
              P0      dP0      P1      dP2       P3         dP3
.fi

.SH LOAD FUNCTIONS
With the \fBload=\fP keyword dynamic object files can be loaded using the
\fIloadobj(3NEMO)\fP mechanism. The convention is that two functions
must be externally visible, and named \fIfunc_\fP\fImethod\fP and
\fIderv_\fP\fImethod\fP  (where \fImethod\fP is the same as the
\fBfit=\fP keyword.
.PP
Here is an example of the file \fBmyline.c\fP that can
be used with \fBfit=line load=myline.so\fP and compiled with
.nf
	bake myline.so
.fi

.nf

/* File:  myline.c  */

#include <stdinc.h>

real func_line(real *x, real *p, int np) 
{
  return p[0] + p[1]*x[0];
}
void derv_line(real *x, real *p, real *e, int np) 
{
  e[0] = 1.0;
  e[1] = x[0];
}


.fi

One word of caution: if you find the program having a hard time finding
a solution in complex cases, it is quite possible that this is not due to
the fact that the function is complex, but due to noise or bad initial
conditions.
.SH DERIVATIVES CHECK
A common debug problem is to check the analytical derivatives in
your external loaded function. The \fBx=\fP keyword can be used
to check the function values (useful to plot up the function
for a given set of parameters in \fBpar=\fP), in which also all
the partial derivatives are listed:
.nf
   % cd $NEMO/src/kernel/tab/fit ; bake gaussn.so
   % echo 1 1 | tabnllsqfit - load=gaussn.so fit=gaussn par=1,2,1,0.2 x=1.1:1.4:0.1
   1.1 2.76499   1 0.882497 4.41248 2.20624
   1.2 2.21306   1 0.606531 6.06531 6.06531
   1.3 1.6493   1 0.324652 4.86979 7.30468
   1.4 1.27067   1 0.135335 2.70671 5.41341
.fi
But to check if the analytical derivates in \fIderv_gaussn()\fP are correct, 
repeating the same value of \fBx\fP a number of times, each parameter
is incremented by a decreasing factor of 0.1 

.nf
   % echo 1 1 | tabnllsqfit - load=gaussn.so fit=gaussn par=1,2,1,0.2 x=1.4::4
   # par iter Y dP  (Y-Y0)/dP   [(Y-Y0)/dP  - dY/dP]
   0 0 1.37067 0.1 1 [8.88178e-16]
   0 1 1.32067 0.05 1 [5.32907e-15]
   ...
   0 9 1.27087 0.000195313 1 [1.36424e-12]
   1 0 1.2842 0.1 0.135335 [2.16493e-15]
   ...
   2 0 1.6493 0.1 3.78634 [1.07964]
   2 1 1.43253 0.05 3.2372 [0.53049]
   ...
   2 8 1.27173 0.000390625 2.71067 [0.00396662]
   2 9 1.2712 0.000195313 2.70869 [0.00198288]
   3 0 1.82222 0.1 5.51554 [0.102129]
   3 1 1.55607 0.05 5.70808 [0.294669]	
   ...
   3 8 1.27279 0.000390625 5.41867 [0.00525903]
   3 9 1.27173 0.000195313 5.41605 [0.00263639]
.fi
You can see that the offset (par 0) and amplitude (par 1) of the gauss are well behaved (as they are linear),
but the centroid (par 2) and width (par 3) of the gauss only slowly converge linearly with the step. The last
number in square brackets is the error between numerical and analytical derivative.
.SH CAVEATS
It will not recognize linear fits if the non-linear parameters are kept fixed,
e.g. the offset 0 in \fBfit=gauss1d\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
tablsqfit(1NEMO), tabhist(1NEMO), tabmath(1NEMO), 
gaussfit(1NEMO), linreg(1NEMO), nllsqfit(3NEMO), fit.dc1(GIPSY)
.PP
\fINumerical Recipies in C, Ch.14\fP
.PP
NLREG: http://www.nlreg.com
.PP
NIST non-linear: http://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/strd/lls/lls.shtml
.PP
NIST linear: http://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/strd/nls/nls_main.shtml
.PP
fityk: http://fityk.nieto.pl/
.PP
A new scheme for calculating weights and describing
correlations in nonlinear least squares fits.
(Hessler, Curent & Ogren, C.I.P. 10, 186, 1996): 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.168569 
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/kernel/tab	tabnllsqfit.c
~/src/kernel/tab/fit	example fitting functions
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
12-jul-02	V1.0 cloned off tablsqfit	PJT
17-jul-02	V1.1 added load=, x=, numrec=		PJT
11-sep-02	V1.1e  changes error/warning to accomodate residual writen	PJT
21-nov-02	V1.4 nsigma= can be an array of iterations	PJT
14-feb-03	V1.6 arm,arm3 for Rahul		PJT
21-mar-03	V1.7 added bootstrap=, seed=	PJT
4-apr-03	V1.8 fixed error in using dycol=, and introduced dypow=		PJT
15-mar-04	V1.8b added fit=loren and corrected lab= setting for functions	PJT/RS
21-nov-05	V2.0 added fit=gauss1d,gauss2d		PJT
24-apr-08	V2.1 added psf	PJT
7-may-10	V2.2 added grow		PJT
24-dec-11	V2.3b estimate gauss1d if no initial par given	PJT
9-dec-12	V3.0 new style xrange= with multiple segments	PJT
9-oct-13	V4.0 numrec= is now method=  for mpfit trials, add function deriv checker	PJT
.fi

