.TH TABPEAK 1NEMO "23 January 2023"
.SH "NAME"
tabpeak \- find peaks or valleys in a table

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBtabpeak\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Find local maxima (and/or minima) and fit a local paraboloid, return the location and
value of the peak, or valley. See also \fItablsqfit(1NEMO)\fP and \fIccdmom(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
The default is to search for local 3 point extrema. Using \fBedge=\fP one can force it
away from the edge, and using \fBpmin=\fP one can increase the minimum number of points
that need to be in the extreme

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input file name [???]    
.TP
\fBxcol=\fP
X-Column [1]      
.TP
\fBycol=\fP
Y-column [2]      
.TP
\fBclip=\fP
Only consider points above this [0]
.TP
\fBpmin=\fP
[EXPERIMENTAL]
Require the peak to contain at least \fBpmin\fP points. By default, only 3 are required, in which
case a polynomial is fit (though this is an exact fit).  By setting this higher, more points are
required to be part of a peak which is then required to be monotonously decreasing.
\fBedge=\fP
Number of points near the edge to skip for a peak finder.   For the simplest 3-point peak
finder this should be at least 1.
[1]
.TP
\fBvalley=t|f\fP
Also fit valleys, in which case the signal has to be below -clip. [Default: f]
.TP
\fBmean=t|f\fP
Use intensity weighted mean ?  [Default: f]
.TP
\fBnpeak=\fP
extract the Nth peak (N>0). If npeak=0, no extraction done. Other keywords will be ignored
if a peak is ectracted for further analysis.  [Default: 0]
.TP
\fBepeak=\fP
expand around the N-th peak extracted by npeak>0 by this factor. By default the segment around
a peak is defined until the first point away from the peak will increase again. [Default: 1]
.TP
\fBnmax=\fP
max size if a pipe [100000]  

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
% nemoinp 1:3 | tabmath - - '-(2.2-%1)**2+10' | tabpeak -
2.200000 10.000000
.fi
Here is a pipeline extracting the first peak, fitting a gaussian to it, and plotting the data and residuals
(in the PGPLOT driver the data will be in red, the residuals in green, and the fit in blue):
.nf

   tabpeak spec.tab | tabnllsqfit - fit=gauss1d out=- | tee fit.log | tabcomment - | tabplot - 1 2,3,4 color=2,3,4 line=1,1
   cat fit.log
   
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tablsqfit(1NEMO)
.SH "FILES"

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
28-May-2013	V0.1 Created	PJT
30-may-2013	V0.2 added valley=	PJT
23-mar-2022	V0.4 added pmin=	PJT
25-mar-2022	V0.5 added edge=	PJT
23-jan-2023	V0.7 added npeak, epeak=	PJT
.fi
