.TH TABPLOT2 1NEMO "9 June 2025"

.SH "NAME"
tabplot2 \- compare two tables

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBtabplot2\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBtabplot2\fP shares most parameters with \fItabplot(1NEMO)\fP, except for binning, which is not implemented here.
Instead there are two input tables, and each table needs an X column and Y column. This can also mean the two
input tables are the same, but different X or Y columns are compared, or two different tables, with the same
X and Y column (which is the default).

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin1=\fP
Input first table. No default.
.TP
\fBin2=\fP
Input second table. No default
.TP
\fBxcol=\fP
x coordinate column(s(). Up to two columns can be given [1,1]
.TP
\fBycol=\fP
y coordinate column(s(). Up to two columns can be given [2,2]
.TP
\fBxmin=\fP
X-min value if not autoscaled []  
.TP
\fBxmax=\fP
X-max value if not autoscaled []  
.TP
\fBymin=\fP
Y-min value if not autoscaled []  
.TP
\fBymax=\fP
Y-max value if not autoscaled []  
.TP
\fBpoint=\fP
point type and size pairs for each table
.TP
\fBline=\fP
line width and style pairs for each table
.TP
\fBcolor=\fP
colors for the symbols/lines for each table []
.TP
\fBxlab=\fP
Label along X-axis []    
.TP
\fBylab=\fP
Label along Y-axis []    
.TP
\fBxcoord=\fP
Draw additional vertical coordinate lines along these X
.TP
\fBycoord=\fP
Draw additional horizontal coordinate lines along these Y
.TP
\fBxbox=\fP
extent of frame in x direction [2.0:18.0] 
.TP
\fBybox=\fP
extent of frame in y direction [2.0:18.0] 
.TP
\fBnxticks=\fP
Number of ticks on X axis [7] 
.TP
\fBnyticks=\fP
Number of ticks on Y axis [7] 
.TP
\fBxscale=\fP
Scale all X values by this [1] 
.TP
\fByscale=\fP
Scale all Y values by this [1] 
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
headline in graph on top right [] 
.TP
\fBfullscale=\fP
Use full autoscale in one axis if other
.TP
\fBcursor=\fP
Optional output file to retrieve cursor coordinates []
.TP
\fBbacktrack=\fP
Allow backtrack in line= option [t]  
.TP
\fBlayout=\fP
Optional input layout file []   
.TP
\fBfirst=\fP
Layout first or last? [f]   
.TP
\fBreadline=\fP
Interactively reading commands [f]    
.TP
\fBpyplot=\fP
Template python plotting script []   

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Here is an example comparing column 2 and 3 from the same file:
.EX
    tabgen - 20 3 seed=1 | sort -n > random1.tab
    tabgen - 20 3 seed=2 | sort -n > random2.tab
    tabplot2 random1.tab random2.tab 1,1 2,3 line=1,1 color=2,4 point=2,0.1
.EE
where the \fIpaste(1)\fP program can achieve the same as follows:
.EX

paste random1.tab random2.tab |\\
	tabplot - 1,4 2,6 line=1,1 color=2,4 point=2,0.1 yapp=2/xs

.EE
except it is harder to keep track of column numbers in he 2nd file.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
tabplot(1NEMO), table(5NEMO), paste(1)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
15-feb-2024	Quick and Dirty conversion from tabplot		PJT
.fi
