.TH TABPOLYGON 1NEMO "5 March 2013"
.SH NAME
tabpolygon \- select points from a table that are either inside or outside a polygon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtabpolygon\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtabpolygon\fP uses two columns from a table as the X and Y coordinates of a series of
points in a plane, and allows
you to define a polygon in that coordinate system and output only lines whose points
would lie either inside or outside that polygon.
.PP
Optionally rejected lines can be output as comments, which keeps the linecount of input
and output the same.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input file name (table). No default
.TP
\fBxcol=\fP
X coordinate column [1]    
.TP
\fBycol=\fP
Y coordinate column [2]    
.TP
\fBpolygon=\fP
The (minimum 3) pairs of X,Y that define the polygon. These must be in the same
coordinate system as the one in the X and Y columns, and the last point is automatically
closed connected to the first point to close the polygon.  
There is no check for self-intersecting polygons such as the
figure 8.  No default.
.TP
\fBinside=\fP
Select inside of region to be output? [t]
.TP
\fBcomment=\fP
Also copy comment lines?. If true, comment lines, as well as points
failing to match the inside/outside polygon criterion, will be output, but
commented using the usual # symbol.. Default : f
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is how points in two (assumed disjoint) regions are identified, and the remnant
in the 3rd table. 
.nf
  % tabpolygon in=points_all.tab   polygon=@region1.pol            > points_1.tab
  % tabpolygon in=points_all.tab   polygon=@region1.pol inside=f   > points_not_1.tab
  % tabpolygon in=points_not_1.tab polygon=@region2.pol            > points_2.tab
  % tabpolygon in=points_not_1.tab polygon=@region2.pol inside=f   > points_3.tab
.fi
.SH CAVEATS
Boolean operations on multiple regions is cumbersome or impossible at the moment.
.SH SEE ALSO
tabmath(1NEMO)
.SH FILES
src/kernel/tab/tabpolygon.c	source code
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
05-Mar-13	V0.1 Created		PJT
.fi
