.TH TABPP 1NEMO "15 May 1998"
.SH NAME
tabpp \- Poynter-Pickett spectral line catalogue manipulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtabpp\fP \fBspecies=\fPs1,s2... \fBmode=\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fItabpp\fP manipulates the Poynter-Pickett catalogue of 
Submillimeter, Millimeter, and Microwave spectral lines
in the frequency range between 0 and 10000 Ghz (i.e.
wavelengths longer then 30 um).
The catalogue can be used as a planning guide or as an
aid in the identification and analysis of observed
spectral lines. The information listed for each spectral 
line includes the frequency and its estimated error, the
intensity, lower state energy, and quantum number assignment.
.PP
The catalogue has been constructed by using 
theoretical least squares fits of published spectral
lines to accepted molecular models. The associated
predictions and their estimated errors are based upon
the resultant fitted parameters and their covariances. Future versions
of this catalogue will add more atoms and molecules and 
update the present listing (331 species) as new data appear.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBspecies=\fP
Species to check for. The default is \fBall\fP. To get a listing of
all valid (known) species in the catalogue, try the shorthand
command "\fB tabpp all species name | more \fP".
Species examples: \fIH-atom, D-atom, OH, C-13-O, 
HNO3, HCOOD, O2, HOCl, NNH+\fP. Note names are case sensitive.
.TP
\fBmode=\fP
Output mode. Either the \fBspecies\fP can be listed, or the 
spectral \fPlines\fP. Minimum match applies. No default.
.TP
\fBcol=\fP
Columns to print out. In \fBlines\fP mode (see previous) you can choose
any of \fIfreq, err, lgint, dr, elow, gup, tag, qnform, qn1, qn2\fP,
or choose \fIall\fP.
In \fBspecies\fP mode any of \fI tag, name, nline, qlog, version\fP, or
\fIall\fP. In \fBlines\fP mode, you can also print out any of the
\fBspecies\fP  columns.
\fI ** Note **\fP Currently selection by column names is not active. In
\fBlines\fP mode  you can
either choose \fIall\fP, or something else, in which case a shorter 
version with  \fIfreq, err, lgint, dr, elow, gup, tag\fP,
will be output, with the \fIname\fP and computed \fImu2\fP in the last 
two columns.
.TP
\fBfreq=\fP
Frequency range to select. Two numbers are required, with an optional
third character string specifying the frequency
units given and requested (the catalogue's numbers are listed in
Mhz, and this is the default). Note that if the units of \fIfreq\fP 
are changed, so will be units of \fIerr\fP and \fPlgint\fP. 
We only support \fBMHz, GHz\fP and \fPTHz\fP (case insensitive).
See example below. 
.TP
\fBcutoff=\fP
Lower line intensity cutoff applied to the output. Any LGINT's smaller than
the cutoff, will not be printed. Default: all will be printed.
.TP
\fBselect=\fP
A comma separated list of numerical comparisons expressions that are
logically AND'ed. Each expression much be of the form \fBa OPER b\fP,
where \fBOPER\fP is any of "<", "<=", ">", ">=", "==", "!=", and
\fBa\fP and \fBb\fP are  \fInemoinp(3NEMO)\fP 
expressions that may also contain references to the column names
if they are preceded by a "%" symbol. 
Example: 
.nf
            \fIselect="sqrt(%Rad) < %lum**2/(%D_0 + %R_0)"\fP
.fi
.TP
\fBfmt=\fP
\fI**not implemented**\fP
.TP
\fBtab=\fP
Table name, in which output is gathered. Default: terminal.
\fINot implemented\fP
.TP
\fBdir=\fP
Up to three string can be given, separated with comma's.
The first one is the name of the unix directory where the catalogue
is located. If none is provided, the environment variable
\fB$PP_DIR\fP is tried, or the local directory, if all
else fails.
The second string is the (C) format specification how the
species filesname are constructed (default is
\fBc%s.cat.Z\fP, where \fB%s\fP is the 6 digit species
identification TAG). The third string is the filename of
the species-directory filename. It defaults to \fBcatdir.cat\fP.
It is not advised to use this keyword, as \fItabpp\fP should have
been setup properly.
.PP
Note: the old pre-1994 catalog will need \fBc%s.ed4.gz\fP and \fBcatdir.ed4\fP.
The maryland version needs TAB_PP set to /lma/spectra.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following command lists all species present in the catalogue
.nf
    % tabpp species=all mode=species col=name | more
or shorthand, since these are the first three program keywords:
    % tabpp all species name | more
.fi
this can be followed up by a frequency search of a few species:
.nf
    % tabpp species=HCOOH,HOCL mode=lines col=mu2 freq=80,115,ghz | more
  or shorthand:
    % tabpp HCOOH,HOCL lines name,freq,err 80,115,ghz | more
.fi
.SH FORMAT
The line catalogue files are in the Footran format:
.nf
.ta +1i
 FREQ,  ERR,  LGINT,DR, ELOW,  GUP,TAG,QNFORM, QN1, QN2
(F13.4, F8.4, F8.4, I2, F10.4, I3, I7, I4,     6I2, 6I2, 1X)

FREQ	frequency of line (by default in Mhz, but you can change it)
ERR	estimated or experimental error in FREQ
LGINT	base 10 logarithm of the integrated intensity 
DR	degree of freedom in the rotatational partition function
ELO	lower state energy relative to ground state
GUP	upper state degeneracy
TAG	species tag or molecular identifier. Negative means laboratory freq.
QNFMT	identifies format of the quantum numbers in QN
QN'	quantum numbers of the upper state coded according to ANFMT
QN''	quantum numbers of the lower state 
.nf
.PP
The species-directory file is in the Footran format:
.nf
TAG,    NAME, NLINE, QLOG,  VERSION
(I6,1X, A14,  I5,    7F7.4, I2)
.fi
.PP
A special column name, \fBmu2\fP identifies the electric dipole matrix,
which can be printed out too. It's units are Debye**2
.PP
.nf
.ta +1i
TAG	species tag number in format \fBWWWWXXXX\fP, \fBWWW\fP=weight, \fBXXX\fP=ordinal
NAME	ASCII name for the species
NLINE	number of lines for this species
QLOG	log10 of the partition function for 300, 225, 150, 75, 37.5, 18.75, 9.375 K
VERSION	version number of this species
.fi
.SH UNITS
.nf
.ta +1i +1i
freq	MHz     	(optionally GHz, THz; see \fBfreq=\fP keyword)
err	MHz      	(optionally GHz, THz)
lgint	nm^2.Mhz  	(optionally nm^2.GHz, nm^2.THz)
elow	cm^-1
qlog	...
mu2	Debye^2         (computed from other quantities)
.fi
.SH TIMING
The full catalogue of 206 species contains 20Mb of compressed ascii data, 
and hence browsing through the whole catalogue will take time. For example,
to find ALL lines between 80 and 81 Ghz, we could issue the following
commands:
.nf
    % time tabpp all lines mu2 80,81,Ghz > log1
    2092.020u 118.850s 40:33.46 90.8% 0+116k 2300+29io 2248pf+0w
.fi
whereas using the (slow) \fBselect=\fP keyword took much longer:
.nf
    % time tabpp all lines mu2 select="%freq < 81000,%freq > 80000" > log2

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
awk(1), grep(1v), tablovas(1NEMO)
.PP
JPL Molecular Spectroscopy: http://spec.jpl.nasa.gov/
.PP
\fIThe Fitting and Prediction of Vibration-Rotation Spectra 
with Spin Interactions\fP,
H. M. Pickett. J. Molec. Spectroscopy 148, 371-377 (1991). 
.PP
\fISubmillimeter, Millimeter, and Microwave Spectral Line Catalogue\fP,
R.L. Poynter and H.M. Pickett. 
Applied Optics 24, 2335-2240 (1985).
This catalogue is also available from these authors as a magnetic
tape recorded in card images and as a set of microfishe records,
or from anonymous ftp \fIftp://spec.jpl.nasa.gov:/pub/catalog/\fP.
.PP
Molecular collision rates for line radiative transfer: 
http://www.strw.leidenuniv.nl/~moldata/
.PP
Anderson, Herbst and De Lucia's list for methanol lines (unknown ref)
.PP
Atomic Data for Astrophysics: http://www.pa.uky.edu/~verner/atom.html
.PP
Table of Isotopes: http://isotopes.lbl.gov/isotopes/toi.html
.PP
Chemical MIME draft: http://www.ch.ic.ac.uk/chemime2.html
.PP
Infrared Line Lists: http://www.mpe.mpg.de/www_ir/ISO/linelists/
.PP
http://www.splatalogue.net/
.PP
http://www.astro.uni-koeln.de/cdms/
.PP
https://astroquery.readthedocs.io/en/latest/atomic/atomic.html
.PP
https://astroquery.readthedocs.io/en/latest/nist/nist.html
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.nf
.ta +1i
PP_DIR             	Home directory of the catalogue
.fi
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +1.5i
$PP_DIR           	home directory of the catalogue (e.g. $MIRCAT/jplcat or $NEMODAT/jplcat)
catdir.cat        	species data for the new (>1994) edition
cWWWXXX.cat.gz       	XXXth (gzip compressed) line data for a species with mol.weight WWW
catdir.ed4       	species data for the old 4th edition
cWWWXXX.ed4.Z    	XXXth (compressed) line data for a species with mol.weight WWW
src/scripts/get_jplcatalog	script to install the catalog via SMA
.fi
.SH BUGS
Cannot search for isotopes yet - this complicates the search, since 
HCN may appear as HCN, HCN-15 in the PP catalogue. The Lovas
catalogue seems to use a different isotope notation, e.g.
HC15N, where it can also be confused with multiplicities, e.g.
HC9N (here they mean 9 C's on a row).
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH HISTORY
.nf +1i +4.5i
29-feb-92	V1.0 Created - data has 206 species         	PJT
24-mar-92	V1.1 compute mu^2 to appease lgm/joe 	PJT
3-oct-92	V1.2 implemented select= 	PJT
18-jan-95	V1.3 made it work for the new 1994 edition of PP_DIR=/lyra/pp
11-sep-95	V1.3a new unofficial edition, now 228 species
	22 new species: SiC, SiC-v1, SiC-13, HCP, DCP, CH3OCH3, HCCNC,
	  HCCNC-v7, HCCNC-v6, CCS, C-13CCS, CC-13S, CCS-34, 
	  CH3OCHO-A, CH3OCHO-E, OS-34-O, HC6, HOBr-79, HOBr-81, HC7N, HC9N, HC11N
	corrected spelling error H2C-13-S
9-oct-95	V1.3b updated, now 272 species / 1041209 lines
15-may-98	V1.4 merged two diverged versions, now 331 species / 1747809 lines
17-aug-05	[miriad $MIRCAT/jplcat resurrected] 338 species / 2209176 lines	PJT
17-jul-11	V1.5 fixed strcpy for more modern gcc compilers	PJT
22-sep-14       default for $NEMODAT/jplcat 
.fi
