.TH TABROWS 1NEMO "30 Mar 2024"

.SH "NAME"
tabrows \- select rows from a table

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBtabrows\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBtabrows\fP selectively copies rows from an input (ASCII) \fItable(5NEMO)\fP.
Selection is done by table row numbers, 1 being the first non-comment row.
Syntax follows the \fInemofie(1NEMO)\fP rules. Row selection can be
done in any order, e.g. \fBselect=3,2,1\fP, as long as \fBcomment=f\fP
(see CAVEATS below)

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input file. No default.
.TP
\fBselect=\fP
rows to select. Any \fInemoinp(3NEMO)\fP expression can be used.
First row is 1.  A special \fBselect=-1\fPq is allowed for the last row.
[all]
.TP
\fBnmax=\fP
Default max allocation of how many can be selected in \fBselect=\fP  [10000].
.TP
\fBcomment=t|f\fP
If set, comments will also be processed, but row numbers are only counted for true table rows.
The default is that comments will be skipped.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
output file. Default is standard output.

.SH "CAVEATS"
Although this program uses the new table interface, the \fBnmax=\fP parameter
is still needed when \fBcomment=t\fP, and thus limits the row count.
A better select counter is needed for this.
.PP
If \fBcomment=t\fP the file is currently processed in streaming mode, thus
the \fBselect=\fP need to be ordered.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
A contrived example to reverse the even lines in a file:
.nf
    nemoinp 1:10:1 | tabrows - 10:1:-2
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tabcols(1NEMO), awk(1), tabmath(1NEMO), tabcomment(1NEMO), tabtab(1NEMO), table(5NEMO)

.SH "FILES"
src/kernel/tab

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +6.0i
9-Mar-99	V0.9 Created 	PJT
5-may-2022	V2.0 converted to table V2 interface, renamed from tablines	PJT
30-mar-2024	V2.2 use in-memory table, and made comment=f the default	PJT
.fi
