.TH TABSTAT 1NEMO "6 June 2001"

.SH "NAME"
tabstat \- table column statistics

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

\fBtabstat\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBtabstat\fP performs table statistics, much like tabhist without
graphical output but with multiple columns. It also contains
an iterative worst outlier removal.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input file name (table)
[No default]
.TP
\fBxcol=\fP
x coordinate column(s) [1]    
.TP
\fBiter=\fP
# iterations removing worst outlier [0]  
.TP
\fBnsigma=\fP
sigma-clipping: multiple sigma above which to remove outliers. See also
\fBiter=\fB. If 0 is specified, no sigma-clipping applied.  [0]
.TP
\fBverbose=\fP
Verbose output of all iterations? [t]  
.TP
\fBwidth=\fP
Width of columns to print []  
.TP
\fBmedian=\fP
Compute median too? (can be time consuming) [t]
.TP
\fBmethod=\fP
Method to remove outliers (0=fast 1=slow) [0] 
.TP
\fBnmax=\fP
maximum number of data to be read if data file is a pipe [10000]
.TP
\fBbad=\fP
If given, this bad value is ignored from the statistics
.TP
\fBrobust=t|f\fP
Perform robust stats by removing outliers. Only used if qac=t set.
[f]
.TP
\fBqac=t|f\fP
Output information in "QAC" format: mean, rms, min and max.   If
robust=t is choosen, the min/max will still be the one of the
original distribution.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
tabhist(1NEMO)
.PP
http://vostat.org

.SH "EXAMPLE"
A table of the numbers 1 through 100, their squares and square roots
is fed into tabstat and compute statistics for each column:
.nf
   % nemoinp 1:100 | tabmath - - '%1*%1,sqrt(%1)' | tabstat - 1,2,3 width=10
npt:          100       100       100
min:            1         1         1
max:          100     10000        10
mean:        50.5    3383.5   6.71463
disp:     28.8661    3009.2   2.32675
skew:           0  0.633312 -0.538185
kurt:    -1.20024 -0.863731 -0.669795
median:      50.5    2550.5   7.10625
.fi

.SH "BUGS"
Non-existent columns are not handled gracefully

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
24-Jan-00	doc written	PJT
6-jun-01	V1.1  sigma -> nsigma	PJT
1-dec-2021	V1.9 added qac/bad/robust	PJT
.fi
