.TH TABSMOOTH 1NEMO "22 June 2024"

.SH "NAME"
tabsmooth \- smooth columns of a table (Hanning, Savitzky-Golay)

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBtabsmooth\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fItabsmooth\fP convolves selected column(s) of an ASCII table.
It does this without paying attention to the actual
X coordinate (meaning: a constant
step size is assumed). Use \fItabspline(1NEMO)\fP to interpolate
across an irregularly sampled table.
.PP
The \fBfilter=\fP option is used to select the filter, for example
a Hanning, Boxcar, Gaussian and a Savitzky-Golay filter (and some of their
derivates) can be selected.   A pass-through is also allowed. Some of the
filters need additional argument(s), given by \fBpars=\fP and are described
below.
.PP
Optionally the smoothing kernel can be shown using \fPshow=t\fP
without the need to read a table.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input file name.
.br
No default
.TP 
\fBxcol=\fP
Column(s) to use. Although multiple columns can be used, only those 
columns are output to stdout.
.br
[1]
.TP
\fBfilter=\fP
Filter option. The way the options are set will likely change, this
is work in progress.  Either a number value can be given, or a minimum
match to the filter name, as shown in the first column:
.nf
   -1   passthrough, the column(s) not modified
   0,h  hanning (1,2,1)
   1    SK2 5pt smooth
   2    SK2 1st derivative with h=1 (sum=0)
   3    SK2 2nd derivative with h=1 (sum=0)
   4    SK4 7pt smooth
   5    SK4 1st derivative  (sum=0)
  11,b  boxcar, needs  pars=width
  12,g  gaussian, needs pars=width[,nsigma=4,old_width=0]
  13,t  trapezoidal, needs pars=width (width=1 is also the hanning)
.fi
The smoothing kernels are normalized to 1 to conserve "flux" (defined as the sum of values here),
though there will be some flux loss at the edges of a table.  The \fIwidth\fP is given in pixels.
If the optional \fIold_width\fP is given, the smoothing kernel is determines from the usual
\fIsqrt(new**2-old**2)\fP. Note that for the gaussian \fIwidth\fP is meant to the FWHM = 2.355 * sigma

.br
Default: 0
.TP 
\fBpars=\fP\fIpar1,par2,...\fP
Optional parameters some of the filters need. See \fBfilter=\fP for the filters that need
parameters.
.br
Default: not used
.TP 
\fBsmooth=\fP
Manually set the smoothing array. By default, the filter= is used to set the smoothing
array.  Be sure to enter an odd number
of array elements, for example a normalized Hanning would be
smooth=0.25,0.5,0.25.
.br
Default: not used.
.TP 
\fBtcol=\fP
Optional column designating the independant variable. Currently the actual value is ignored,
but this column will be output before the smoothed column(s).
.br
Default: not used.
.TP 
\fBshow=t|f\fP
If set, it  will show the smoothing kernel. No input file is needed in this case.
.br
Default: f
.TP
\fBnsmooth=\fP
Number of successive smoothings applied.
.br
Not implemented yet, just a single smoothing is applied.
.TP
\fBedge=0|1|2\fP
how to deal with edges. See EDGE below. Only a limited number have been implemented.
.br
Default: 0

.SH "EDGE"
Treatment of smoothing the edge has several options. In general the flux will not
be conserved near the edge. Here we compare how this is handled in a few popular
packages:
.PP
Following the options in the popular IDL package
(see https://www.nv5geospatialsoftware.com/docs/CONVOL.html) we have:
.TP
EDGE_CONSTANT
Set the outside edge to a specific value. If 0, that's EDGE_ZERO, if not
we should capture that value.   -- not implemented here --
.br
"...CCCC|abcdefg|CCCC..."
.TP
EDGE_MIRROR
Is this edge=1 ?
.br
"gfedcba|abcdefg|gfedcba"
.TP
EDGE_REFLECT
reflection. like mirror, but shifted over one.
.br
"gfedcb|abcdefg|fedcba".
.TP
EDGE_TRUNCATE
This is the default in gbtidl (\fBedge=2\fP) for the left side. Why the right
side needs to inherit the left side is beyond me. Seems like a typo to me.
.br
"..aaa|abcdefg|aaa.."
.TP
EDGE_WRAP
wrapping
.br
"abcdefg|abcdefg|abcdefg".
.TP
EDGE_ZERO
Our \fBedge=0\fP
.br
"...0000|abcdefg|0000...".
.PP
Following astropy (see https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/convolution/index.html) we have:
.TP
boundary='extend'
Constant extrapolation of the edge value beyond the boundary  (\fBedge=2\fP)
.TP
boundary='fill'
Default fill value is 0.0  (\fBedge=0\fP)
.PP
Both these astropy cases were properly handled by \fBtabsmooth\fP.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Here we draw 100000 random values from a normal distribution (mean 0, dispersion 1) and smooth them
with various filters, and observe what the resulting dispersion is:
.nf

tabgen - 100000 1 2 123| tabsmooth - 1 -1 | tabstat - | grep disp
1.0022
tabgen - 100000 1 2 123| tabsmooth - 1  0 | tabstat - | grep disp
0.6128
tabgen - 100000 1 2 123| tabsmooth - 1  1 | tabstat - | grep disp
0.6973
tabgen - 100000 1 2 123| tabsmooth - 1  4 | tabstat - | grep disp
0.7537

.fi
Here is the gaussian smoothing kernel, then applied to the previous example using
a NEMO @file 
.EX

  $ tabsmooth . filter=12 pars=2 show=t
  0.000917431
  0.0293578
  0.234862
  0.469725
  0.234862
  0.0293578
  0.000917431

  $ tabsmooth . filter=12 pars=2 show=t > smg.tab
  $ tabgen - 100000 1 2 123| tabsmooth - 1 smooth=@smg.tab | tabstat - | grep disp
  disp:    0.577259

.EE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
tabmath(1NEMO), tabtrend(1NEMO), tabrows(1NEMO), tabcols(1NEMO), tabspline(1NEMO), ccdsmooth(1NEMO), table(5NEMO)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.25i +4.5i
20-dec-2010	V0.1 Created, Q&D	PJT
13-oct-2014	documented smooth=
28-sep-2023	V0.5 added filter=	PJT
29-sep-2023	V0.6 converted to table V2	PJT
29-nov-2023	V0.7 added tcol=	PJT
21-jun-2023	V0.8 added show= and pars= for filters 	PJT
.fi
