.TH TABTREND 1NEMO "12 December 2022"

.SH "NAME"
tabtrend \- difference rows from previous rows

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBtabtrend\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBtabtrend\fP takes a single column from an ASCII table, and differences subsequent
values, creating a new column that is thus one row shorter.
.PP
Note that for a gaussian signal, 
differencing subsequent elements will create a distribution
with a noise sqrt(2) larger than the input signal.
.PP
The parameter \fBdelta=\fP is the distance in rows to compute the trend, which
enables one to compute the phase structure function of the signal
(see EXAMPLES below).

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input file name. No default.
.TP
\fBxcol=\fP
Column(s) to use [1]
.TP
\fBcumul=t|f\fP
Cumulative, instead of differences.  Default: false
.TP
\fBdelta=N\fP
How far should the neighbor in the trend analysis be? [1]
.TP
\fBorig=t|f\fP
Also show the original column (if selected it will be shown \fIafter\fP the trend column  [f]
.TP
\fBfirst=t|f\fP
Add the first row?  [Default: f]

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Create 10000 numbers gaussian distributed with dispersion 1, here are a few sequences showing
a few operations that modify the observed dispersion:
.nf
n=10000

seq $n | tabmath - - 'rang(0,1)' all seed=-1 |                             tabhist - 
# sigma=1
seq $n | tabmath - - 'rang(0,1)' all seed=-1 | tabsmooth - |               tabhist -
# sigma=0.612 (sqrt(3/8)?)
seq $n | tabmath - - 'rang(0,1)' all seed=-1 | tabtrend -  |               tabhist -
# sigma=1.414 (sqrt(2))
seq $n | tabmath - - 'rang(0,1)' all seed=-1 | tabsmooth - | tabtrend -  | tabhist -
# sigma=0.5
seq $n | tabmath - - 'rang(0,1)' all seed=-1 | tabtrend -  | tabsmooth - | tabhist -
# sigma=0.5
.fi
Note that smoothing and trending are related, so their resulting dispersions in the last two 
examples do not multiply.
.PP
This also means if you don't know if a signal had been applied a Hanning smoothing, compute the sigma
before and after a difference operator. If that ratio is sqrt(2), it means it was not, it was a pure
un-correllated gaussian. However, if the ratio is sqrt(2/3) = 0.816, it was a Hanning smoothed signal
to begin with.
.PP
By using different values of the \fBdelta=\fP parameter, one can study the correlation length of
the noise, .e.g to look at correlations on a scale of up to 64:
.nf

    rm -f rms.tab
    seq 10000 | tabmath - - 'rang(0,1),%2+10*sind(%1*2)' > tab1
    for i in $(seq 64); do
       rms=(tabtrend tab1 delta=$i |tabstat - qac=t | txtpar - p0=QAC,1,4)
       echo $i $rms >> rms.tab
    done
    tabplot rms.tab
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
tabsmooth(1NEMO), tabmath(1NEMO), nemoinp(1NEMO), tabhist(1NEMO)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.5i +5.5i
26-Nov-2012	finally documented	PJT
13-oct-2014	better examples		PJT
15-jun-2016	added cumul=		PJT
26-may-2020	added orig=		PJT
1-may-2022	remove nmax= for table V2	PJT
6-jun-2022	add delta=	PJT
.fi
