.TH TABTAB 1NEMO "19 January 2026"

.SH "NAME"
tabtab \- concatenate or paste conformant tables, or add line numbers

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBtabtab\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBtabtab\fP will concatenate or paste conformant tables.
.PP
In \fBpaste\fP mode the number of rows need to be the same.  In \fBconcat\fP mode
the number of columns need to be same.   Although these mimic
the standard \fIpaste(1)\fP and \fIcat(1)\fP programs, the tables need to be
conformant, though the input tables can have their own header/comment files.
.PP
If only one input file is given, a line number is added as the first column, with
an optional offset. This option is equivalent to the
unix \fInl(1)\fP program, although "cat -n" also achieves the same result.
The \fItabcols(1NEMO)\fP with column number 0 will also add the row number.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input files.
.br
No default. If only one file is given, line numbers are added.
.TP
\fBout=-\fP
Output file, must not exist yet.
.br
Default: stdout
.TP
\fBmode=p|c\fP
Paste or Concat mode.
.br
[p].
.TP
\fBspace=t|f\fP
todo
.br
[t]
.TP
\fBoffset=\fP
Offset counter from 0 if line numbers are added. See also
\fItabcols(1NEMO)\fP with column 0 how to add row numbers.
.br
[1]

.SH "CAVEATS"
Table headers are lost

.SH "EXAMPLES"

.EX
% nemoinp 10:15 > tab1
% tabtab tab1,tab1  > tab2
% tabtab tab1 > tab3
.EE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
tabcols(1NEMO), tabrows(1NEMO), table(5NEMO)

.SH "FILES"
src/kernel/tab/tabtab.c

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.25i +4.5i
26-apr-2022	Created		PJT
19-jan-2026	0.4 add offset= and allow single file numbering		PJT
.fi
