.TH TABTOS 1NEMO "14 November 2006"
.SH NAME
tabtos \- convert structured ASCII tables into snapshot format
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtabtos in=\fPascii_file \fBout=\fPsnap_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fItabtos\fP converts ASCII tables into
\fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. These tables can be structured as well
as unstructured tables. There is a control parameter
(\fBoptions=scan\fP) with which one 
may be able to figure out the structure of a
file. For binary files, there are several examples,
as well the more generic \fIbinsnap(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
Structured tables consist of
a small (though optional) header, 
that normally contains parameters like the number of bodies,
the time of the snapshot etc., and one or more blocks (sections)
of homogeneous tables, their length equal the number of bodies
in the snapshot and their width as specified by the user
from the variables expected to be present in those blocks. Examples
will be shown below.
.PP
Unstructured files (i.e. without a header) can also be
processed if the user specifies how many bodies are present per
snapshot.  If even that is
not done, the number of lines in the file (corrected for the
number of \fBtimes\fP and \fBblock\fPs 
specified) is used to derive the number of
bodies.  Although at least one block must be present, if no
times are specified, the number of snapshots is then assumed to
be one. See examples below. 
.PP
By default tabtos does not handle comment lines (lines starting with
#) gracefully at all,
see \fBoptions=comment\fP or \fBoptions=history\fP below how to deal with his.
If you use these options, automatically determining \fBnbody\fP will
not work, and either \fBheader=\fP or \fBnbody=\fP needs to be used.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIascii_file\fP
Input file name (ascii table/structure)
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIsnap_file\fP
Output file name (snapshot).
No default.
.TP
\fBheader=\fP\fIvar1,var2,...\fP
A list of variables that are present in the header, in
the order given. They do not need to be present on the same line.

Recognized are: \fBnbody, ndim, time, skip (-)\fP. If they do not
appear in the header, their value should be set via the
equivalent keyword (see below). The special value \fBskip\fP (or \fB-\fP) 
is allowed to skip header items that have no current meaning in
parsing the data into snapshot format (e.g. SPH files have 
\fBngas\fP, but this is currently not processed).
Default: none supplied.
.TP 20
\fBblock1=\fP\fIvar1,var2,...\fP
A list of variables that are present in this block 
of \fBnbody\fP lines, in the order give.

Recognized are: \fBmass, pos, vel, phase, acc, phi,
aux\fP for real-valued and \fBkey\fP for integer valued
columns (see also \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP). In addition, single
elements from the \fBndim\fP vector are recognized as
\fBx, y, z, vx, vy, vz, ax, ay, az\fP. \fBm\fP is also
recognized as \fBmass\fP, to be symmetric with the
standard \fIbodytrans(5NEMO)\fP names.
As before, the name \fBskip\fP (or \fB-\fP) can be used to skip a column.
If the variable \fBskip\fP appears are the only item in a block,
all \fBnbody\fP rows in that block are skipped, independant of 
the number of columns (NOTE: this cannot be done if
\fBoptions=wrap\fP is used). 

Structured ASCII tables can contain up to 9 separate blocks,
currently all of them must have the same length, and be equal to
the number of bodies, \fBnbody\fP.
No default.
.TP
\fBblock2=\fP\fIvar1,var2,...\fP
See above, for 2nd block, if present.  
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBblock3=\fP\fIvar1,var2,...\fP
See above, for 3rd block, if present.  
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBblock4=\fP\fIvar1,var2,...\fP
See above, for 4th block, if present.
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBblock5=\fP\fIvar1,var2,...\fP
See above, for 5th block, if present.
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBblock6=\fP\fIvar1,var2,...\fP
See above, for 6th block, if present.
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBblock7=\fP\fIvar1,var2,...\fP
See above, for 7th block, if present.
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBblock8=\fP\fIvar1,var2,...\fP
See above, for 8th block, if present.
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBblock9=\fP\fIvar1,var2,...\fP
See above, for 9th block, if present.
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fInbody\fP
Number of bodies, if the header doesn't supply it. If none supplied, neither
through the header, nor using this keyword, it is derived from
the number of lines in the file, corrected (divided) by
the number of specified blocks (\fBblock#=\fP)
and the numbers of specified times. 
(\fBtimes=\fP).
Default: not used.
.TP 20
\fBndim=\fP\fINDIM\fP
Dimension of \fBpos,vel,acc\fP arrays, if the header doesn't supply it.
The program can be compiled for \fINDIM\fP=2 or 3, but they
must match. If not specified, the program will assume it's internal;
default, \fINDIM\fP.
Default: not used.
.TP 20
\fBtimes=\fP\fIt1,t2,...\fP
Time(s) of snapshot(s), if the header doesn't supply it.
This can be a list of times, if multiple snapshot are being read.
Implied do loops can be given, for example, 
\fB0:100:2.5\fP is a legal way to specify an array of 41 times
(see \fInemoinp(1NEMO)\fP)
Specifying times through this keyword not only overrides any
header values, but also limits the maximum number of snapshot
that are read (thus avoiding the dreaded fatal EOF error)
One can also use \fBoptions=time\fP,
in which case time is auto-incremented (by 1) for each snapshot.
Default: not used.
.TP
\fBoptions=\fP
A list of options, needs exact match.
\fBscan\fP the input file is merely scanned for
regularity. It then prints the line numbers at which the
number of columns changed. It's a bit more informational than
\fIawk '{print NF}' | uniq\fP.
\fBcomment\fP allows you to have comment lines in the file (lines
that start with a # symbol). By default no comment lines are allowed.
\fBwrap\fP allows, for each block, 
the expected numbers on a line to be wrapped over more than
one line. The side-effect of this is that the next record in that
same block starts immediately following the wrapped number. 
\fBspill\fP discards all numbers read from the last line to fill a record
within a block, and hence negates the side-effect of the \fPwrap\fP option.
\fBtime\fP auto-increments time (by 1) as new snapshots are found.
\fBhistory\fP uses comment lines and adds them to the data history
(see \fIhistory(3NEMO)\fP).
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
Random mumblage for humans, used to identify the snapshot.
Default: not used.
.SH EXAMPLES
To read in a single snapshot table with masses, (3D) positions and 
velocities in columns 1-7, with the number of bodies equals the number
of rows in the table, you can use:
.nf

    % tabtos in=table out=snap block1=mass,pos,vel

.fi
To read in "205" formatted N-body snapshots 
(see also \fIatos(1NEMO)\fP), with three seperate blocks of
masses, positions and velocities, you can use:
.nf

    % tabtos in=table out=snap header=nbody,ndim,time \\
            block1=mass block2=pos block3=vel

.fi
To read in "205" pure-SPH data (i.e. NGAS=NOBJ, see also 
\fIatosph(1NEMO)\fP), in which the
density is going to be
stored in the \fBmass\fP slot, entropy/temperature
in \fBaux\fP, potentials in \fBphi\fP, and masses and smoothing
lengths are skipped, use:
.nf

    % tabtos in=table out=snap header=nbody,skip,ndim,time  \\
            block1=skip block2=pos block3=vel block4=mass block5=aux \\
            block6=skip block7=phi

.fi
Note: files with Ngas < Nobj cannot be processed (yet), since the
blocks have different length. See \fIatosph(1NEMO)\fP.
.SH 205 FORMAT
For a full explanation, see \fIatos(1NEMO)\fP, but below we list
the two different popular "205" formats around (atos, and atosph)

.nf
.ta +1i +2i
\fIformat	header\fP          	blocks\fP

atos	nbody,ndim,time  	mass pos vel phi
atosph	nbody,ngas,ndim,time	mass pos vel rho temp hsph phi acc
.fi
.SH CAVEATS
\fItabtos\fP is very tolerant (sometimes too!)
with respect to slight
under- or over-specifications. It tries to write data, but only
if it really gets stuck, the program is aborted. 
\fIwarning(3NEMO)\fP messages should not be discarded, check
them to see if they make sense. Otherwise what you think is
correct data, may not have been parsed correctly. That's life
in the fast ASCII lane. 
.PP
If no \fBtimes\fP specified, and the \fBheader=\fP has no 
associated time, all snapshots will 
have the same time (0.0). A warning will be issued.
.PP
If both \fBtimes\fP specified, and the \fBheader=\fP has an
associated time, the header value will be overriden with
the user specified values. Note that the number of specified
times now determines the maximum number of snapshots that
will be read, i.e. EOF may not be reached.
.PP
Although snapshots with varying amounts of particles can be
read, there are many programs in NEMO which have difficulties
if the first snapshot is not the largest one in that file.
.SH BUGS
This is a complicated program to understand, but can often read complicated
ascii files.
.PP
This program cannot parse fixed column files if they are not separated by whitespace.
.PP
Files with comment lines cannot be parsed. Use \fItabcomment(1NEMO)\fP to
delete them:
.nf
    tabcomment tab.in - delete=t | tabtos - snap.out ....
.fi
though the drawback of using a pipe in this example is that typically 
the keyword \fBnbody=\fP needs to be supplied.
.SH SEE ALSO
atos(1NEMO), atosph(1NEMO), binsnap(1NEMO), snapprint(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), unfio(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
27-Aug-93	V1.0 Created, I finally broke down	Peter Teuben
30-aug-93	V1.1 added scan=                   	PJT
25-oct-94	V1.2 options=scan|comment	PJT
2-nov-94	V1.2d added wrap/spill, fixed times= bug	PJT
19-aug-00	V1.3d fixed various TAB related problems	PJT
24-jan-02	V1.3f block10 now	PJT
29-jul-05	V1.4 added options=time to auto-inc time	PJT
14-nov-06	V1.5 added history option			PJT
.fi
