.TH TIPSYSNAP 1NEMO "11 February 2022"

.SH "NAME"
tipsysnap \- convert tipsy file to snapshot

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBtipsysnap\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBtipsysnap\fP converts a \fItipsy\fP ascii or binary formatted data file,
consisting of gas, dark and star- particles to \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP
format. Simple selections by particle kind can be made.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input TIPSY file. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output snapshot file. If not supplied, only header information is displayed.
.TP
\fBoptions=\fP
Output which particles?. Valid options are
\fBgas\fP, \fBdark\fP and \fBstar\fP. Default:
\fBgas,dark,star\fP (all).
.TP
\fBmodes=ascii|binary\fP
Read ascii or binary TIPSY file format. Default: binary
.TP
\fBswap=t|f\fP
Swap bytes. This is needed if you want to be able to read
standard (XDR, big endian) or native binary files.
Default: false.
.TP
\fBoffset=0\fP
Number of bytes to offset the data portion from the header. Normally
this would be 0, but the header structure (tipsydefs.h) containing
one double and 5 integers, some architectures may read this as
32 bytes, whereas it was meant to be 28 bytes. By using offset=-4
in this case, data with 28 byte headers can still be read. Equally
so, the opposite can also happen, in which case offset=4 is needed.
Some version of the format use the last 4 bytes as a version ID, an
integer that can be 1 or 2. See \fItipsy(5NEMO)\fP.
Default: 0
.TP
\fBboom=t|f\fP
If the tipsy file has extra accellerations and potentials stored,
the version should be 6.
Default: f

.SH "EXAMPLES"
In case multiple flavors of particles are read, they are deposited
in different SnapShot's in the file. \fIsnapmerge(1NEMO)\fP needs to
be used to make one snapshot. For example the standard
\fBrun99.bin\fP from the tipsy source code distrution has all 3 flavors:
.nf

   tipsysnap run99.bin -  |  snapmerge - run99.snap
   ### nemo Debug Info: time=14.9708 N=8579 (1049,1021,6509) for gas,dark,star    version=0
   ### nemo Debug Info: header = 32  gas = 48   dark = 36  star = 44 bytes

.fi

Some codes (e.g. Bonsai) write a different tipsy file for each dump time. this complicates
the pipe approach of NEMO. Below is a script could process tipsy files into a NEMO snapshot,
or into a pipe for further processing:
.nf

     ./tipsy_to_snap out.snap out_*.*
or
     ./tipsy_to_snap  -  out_*.* | tsf -




#! /usr/bin/bash
#

if [ "$#" == "0" ]; then
    echo "Usage:  $0 out.snap tipsy1 tipsy2 ...."
    exit 0
fi

out=$1
if [ -e "$out" ]; then
    echo "Cannot overwrite $out"
    exit 1
fi

shift

for f in $*; do
    # tipsysnap_acc $f - | csf - - item=SnapShot >> tmp.snap
    if [ "$out" == "-" ]; then
        tipsysnap_acc $f -
    else
        tipsysnap_acc $f -  >> $out
    fi
done

.fi

.SH "DATA FORMAT"
See also \fItipsy(5NEMO)\fP on some basic concepts of tipsy data. The
ascii format of a TIPSY "\fIgds\fP" (gas-dark-star) snapshot is essentially
a single long column of data with the following items
.nf
ntot ngas nstar      [noting that ndark=ntot-ngas-nstar]
ndim                 [usually 3, i've not see ndim=2 data]
time                 [a floating point number]
M(g),M(d),M(s)       [but all of these in 1 column]
X(g),X(d),X(s)
Y(g),Y(d),Y(s)
Z(g),Z(d),Z(s)
VX(g),VX(d),VX(s)
VY(g),VY(d),VY(s)
VZ(g),VZ(d),VZ(s)
EPS(d), EPS(s)
\.\.\.
.fi

.SH "BUGS"
In \fBmode=binary\fP the gas, dark and star particles are output
in separate snapshots.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
snaptipsy(1NEMO), stoa_tip(1ZENO), tipsy(5NEMO)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
02-Sep-94	V1.0 Created 	PJT
19-aug-00	V2.0 add mode= to allow binary files, added swap= 	PJT
28-aug-01	V2.1 process binary data, added offset= (replaces shortlived fix32=t|f)	PJT
4-feb-22	V3.0 add boom= and make mode=binary the default 	PJT
.fi
