.TH TREECODE2 1NEMO "19 April 1994"
.SH NAME
treecode2 - fortran version of hackcode, with Cray optimizations and 
no recursion
.SH SYNOPSIS
treecode2
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtreecode2\fP is the Hernquist version (Version 2, November 1988)
of the Barnes and Hut treecode (see also \fIhackcode1(1NEMO)\fP.
This version is written in fortran, 
has been optimized for supercomputers and
is fully vectorized, no recursion used. See the file \fItreecode.f\fP for 
many more details.
.PP
Computational units can be anything, but the gravitational constant G=1.
.SH PARAMETERS
Two files (both in ascii) determine the input parameters and input
condition, and must be present at the start of the program.
.PP
The first one is the
input parameter file with the name \fBTREEPAR\fP. It 
contains, line by line, the input parameters for this run. In the table 
below the values for the benchmark input parameter file are given
in square brackets:
.PP
.nf
.ta +0.5i +1i
	\fB headline\fP  	Identification string for the run (max 50 char) [\fBstandard NEMO bench\fP]
	\fB nsteps\fP    	Number of timesteps [\fB64\fP]
	\fB noutbod\fP   	Output system state (file \fBTREEBOA\fP) once every nsteps/noutbod steps [\fB100\fP]
	\fB noutlog\fP   	Output logfile data (file \fBTREELOG\fP) once every nsteps/noutlog steps [\fB1\fP]
	\fB dtime\fP     	Integration timestep [\fB0.03125\fP]
	\fB tol\fP         	Error tolerance; 0.0=exact [\fB1.0\fP]
	\fB eps\fP      	Potential softening parameter [\fB0.05\fP]
	\fB usequad\fP   	Option to include quadrupole terms (.TRUE./.FALSE.) [\fB.FALSE.\fP]
.fi
.PP
The second file has to be named \fBTREEBI\fP, and contains the input 
bodies in a format described in \fIstoa(1NEMO)\fP.
.PP
Output files created are \fBTREEBOA\fP, which contains all the
requested (see \fBnoutbod\fP) output snapshots 
in ascii \fIatos(1NEMO)\fP format, \fBTREELOG\fP,
which contains a log (see \fBnoutlog\fP)
of the run and \fBTREEBO\fP, which contains
a binary (machine dependable) dump of the last snapshot.
\fINote that these three output files must not be present when the 
program is to be run.\fP (ANSI FORTRAN) 
.PP
To avoid excessive overhead, \fBnoutlog\fP should be larger than 1,
typically ~ 10, depending on total number of steps though.
.SH RUNNING
A shell script \fBruntreecode2\fP is available to ease running this
program slightly, and also prevents you from running two versions of
\fBtreecode2\fP in the same directory.
Script usage:
.PP
\fBruntreecode2\fP \fIinput_snapshot output_snapshot pars_file\fP
.PP
The \fIinput_snapshot\fP and 
\fIoutput_snapshot\fP are now in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP
format, whereas the \fIpars_file\fP is in the format described in
the previous \fBPARAMETERS\fP section.
.PP
A regular NEMO program \fBtreecode0\fP can also be used. Although
very similar in operation to the abovementioned script, it makes
running multiple versions of the programs a bit more transparant,
and equal to running other programs in the NEMO environment.
.SH MAKE
The accompanying Makefile has targets to compile treecode2
on the Cray, Sun and Vax, by appropiately defining the \fBOS=\fP macro in
the Makefile, as well as running benchmarks within NEMO's environment.
See Makefile for details.
.SH BENCHMARKS
Timings from the running the standard benchmark (see also
\fIhackcode1(1NEMO)\fP from the makefile (cpu times are in seconds):
.nf
.ta +1i +1i +2i +1i
machine 	cpu	compiler	OS

Cray YMP	1.625	cf77 -dp	Unicos ...
SGI     	8.5	f77 -O3     	IRIX Release 4.0.5F System V	
SGI     	11.9	f77 -O     	IRIX Release 4.0.5F System V	
Sparc 10/30	9.3	f77 -cg89 -dalign -fast -O	SUN OS 4.1.3 - SC1.0
Sparc 10/30	8.6	f77 -cg92 -dalign -fast -O	SUN OS 4.1.3 - SC2.0.1
Sparc 10/30	8.0	f77 -cg92 -dalign -fast -O4 -libmil	SUN OS 4.1.3 - SC2.0.1
Sparc 10/51	6.6	f77 -cg92 -dalign -fast -O4 -libmil	SUN OS 5.3 - SC2.0.1
Sparc 1 (4/60)	68.5	f77 -O      	SUN OS 4.1.3 - SC1.0
Sparc 1 (4/60)	56.2	f77 -cg89 -dalign -fast -O	SUN OS 4.1.3 - SC1.0
Sun 3/60	1784.0	f77 -O     	SUN OS 4.1.1 - SC1.0
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Lars Hernquist
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
~/usr/lars/treecode2/        	original LARS version
~/src/nbody/evolve/treecode2/	official NEMO version (ASCII \fIatos/stoa\fP I/O)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
hackcode1(1NEMO), treecode(1NEMO), nbody0(1NEMO), atos(1NEMO), tabtos(1NEMO)
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
xx-xxx-xx	V2 allows quadrupole terms	Lars Hernquist (@UCB)
xx-xxx-xx	V2.1 optimized 2D and 3D versions of the code	LH
1-sep-86	V2.2 allow arbitrary large values of tol=	LH
18-nov-88	'V2' non-recursive vectorized version         	LH (@IAS)
xx-apr-90	Directory made for NEMO's export           	PJT
5-jun-90	Document created                        	PJT
23-oct-91	Cray tests - disabled SECOND in treeutil.f	PJT
15-apr-94	added benchmark docs                    	PJT
.fi
