.TH TREECODE0 1NEMO " 25 October 1991"
.SH NAME
treecode0 \- NEMO frontend for the TREECODE family of programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtreecode0\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fItreecode0\fP is a NEMO frontend to run any of the TREECODE family of
programs. Standard NEMO datafiles are given, converted on the fly to
"205" format, the specified TREECODE integrator is run, and output
files in "205" format are converted back to NEMO's \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP 
format.
.PP 
This program works by writing a C-shell script \fBtmpscript.\fP\fIpid\fP, 
where \fIpid\fP is the process ID (see \fIgetpid(3)\fP). This script
is then executed via \fIexecl(3)\fP, and kept in the current working
directory. 
.PP
Since this program uses the following NEMO programs, they need
to have been installed: \fIstoa, treecode*, \fP and \fIatos\fP.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBprog=\fP\fIprogname\fP
Name of the TREECODE program to be run. [Default: \fBtreecode2\fP].
.TP
\fBin=\fP\fIinsnap\fP
Snapshot input filename. This snapshot is converted to \fBTREEBI\fP by
\fIstoa(1NEMO)\fP. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIoutsnap\fP
Snapshot output filename. This is the ascii output \fBTREEBOA\fP converted
back to snapshot by \fIatos(1NEMO)\fP. No default.
Note that the working directory for TREECODE will be
\fIoutsnap\fP\fB_dir\fP.
.TP
\fBlog=\fP\fIlogfile\fP
Output logfile. This is the \fBTREELOG \fP file. No default.
.TP
\fBclean=\fP\fBt|f\fP
Clean up temp files? [Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
\fBexec=\fP\fBt|f\fP
Execute the script? [Default: \fBt\fP].
.TP
 ......................  The remaining parameters are for the TREECODE  ................
.TP 20
\fBtext=\fP
Title for the run. Maximum string length is limited by the declared 
string lenght in the called fortran program. \fItreecode2\fP has a
maximum of 50 characters.
.TP
\fBnsteps=\fP
Total number of steps for this run [64].
.TP
\fBnoutbod=\fP
Number of steps before major output of mass,phase,phi [8].
.TP
\fBnoutlog\fP
Number of steps before output in logfile [1].
.TP
\fBdt=\fP
Integration timestep [0.03125].
.TP
\fBtol=\fP
Tolerance, the accuracy of the treecode, also called the opening 
angle [1.0].
.TP
\fBeps=\fP
Softening length [0.05].
.TP
\fBusequad=\fP\fBt|f\fP
Use quadrupole moments? [f].
.SH SEE ALSO
treecode2(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/nbody/evolve/treecode2/	
.fi
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
26-Jul-91	V0.0 document created for NEMO	PJT
23-oct-91       V1.1 added exec=, extra tr to delete , in script	PJT
.fi
