.TH TREECODE1 1NEMO "23 October 2007"
.SH NAME
treecode1 \- Hierarchical N-body code (theta scan)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtreecode1\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtreecode1\fP is NEMO's adaptation of treecode, a  a program for
self-consistent N-body simulation. It is faster than previous codes, and
generally provides better error control. 
Preliminary timing tests show that treecode
is indeed about a factor of two faster than the BH86 code 
(see \fIhackcode1(1NEMO)\fP) 
\fIat a fixed level of accuracy\fP;
it also outperforms other versions of that algorithm
(Barnes 1998). Moreover, 
it is significantly more robust when 
presented with `perverse' mass distributions (Salmon & Warren 1994).
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 10
\fBin=\fP
if given, names an input file containing initial conditions for the
calculation. The format of this file is described below. 
.TP
\fBout=\fP
If given, is a pattern naming output files for N-body snapshots taken at
regular intervals. This pattern is used as an argument to sprintf, along
with the integration step number, to generate an actual file name. If
the resulting file already exists, the new data is appended. The format
used is similar to the format used for input files.  See below.
.TP
\fBdtime=\fP
is the integration time-step. It's convenient to use a timestep which
has an exact representation as a floating-point number; for example, a
value n/d, where n is an integer and d is a power of two. To simplify
specification of such timesteps, the code accepts fractions as well as
ordinary floating-point values. If dtime=0, treecode does a single force
calculation, outputs the result, and exits.
[1/32]    
.TP
\fBeps=\fP
is the smoothing length used in the gravitational force calculation. In
effect, the mass distribution is smoothed by replacing each body by a
Plummer sphere with scale length eps, and the gravitational field of
this smoothed distribution is calculated. [0.025]    
.TP
\fBtheta=\fP
is the opening angle used to adjust the accuracy of the force
calculation. Values less than unity produce more accurate forces, albeit
at greater computational expense. The QUICKSCAN version does not use or
accept this parameter.  [1.0]    
.TP
\fBusequad=\fP
determines if quadrupole corrections are used when calculating
gravitational fields. These corrections can significantly improve the
accuracy of force calculation at a fairly modest computational cost. 
[false]  
.TP
\fBoptions=\fP
is a list of comma-separated key words used to obtain various run-time
options. The options available are :
\fBreset-time:\fP set the time to zero, regardless of the 
value in the input file; 
\fBnew-tout:\fP reschedule the first snapshot output; 
\fBout-phi:\fP include potential values in the output files; 
\fBout-acc:\fP include acceleration vectors in the output files; 
\fBbh86:\fP use the BH86 criterion to set critical cell radii; 
\fBsw94:\fP use Salmon & Warren's (1994) bmax criterion 
to set critical cell radii. 
.TP
\fBtstop=\fP
is the time at which the N-Body integration terminates.  [2.0]   
.TP
\fBdtout=\fP
is the time interval between output files. 
To insure that outputs are performed when expected, dtout should be a multiple of
dtime. Like dtime, this parameter may be specified as a fraction.  
[1/4]    
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP
is the number of bodies used to self-generate initial conditions. This
parameter is only used if no input or restore file is given. 
[4096] 
.TP
\fBseed=\fP
is the random number seed used to self-generate initial conditions. This
parameter is only used if no input or restore file is given.
[123] 
.TP
\fBsave=\fP
Write state file as code runs. Not used in NEMO yet.
.TP
\fBrestore=\fP
Continue run from state file. Not used in NEMO yet.
.SH EXAMPLES
For example, to run a test calculation using a Plummer model with 32768
bodies and an opening angle of 0.75, type 
.nf
    % treecode nbody=32768 theta=0.75
.fi
To compute forces and potentials for a N-body configuration in the input
file input.data, writing the result to output file forces.data, type
.ni
    % treecode input.data forces.data dtime=0 options=out-phi,out-acc
.fi
To run the initial conditions in input.data with a timestep of 1/64,
writing results at intervals of 1/16 to separate files run_000.data,
run_004.data, ..., type 
.nf
    % treecode input.data run_%03d.data dtime=1/64 dtout=1/16
.fi

To perform the same calculation using the QUICKSCAN version, while
saving the program's state after each step, type 
.nf
    % treecode_q input.data run_%03d.data dtime=1/64 dtout=1/16 save=state.data
.fi
To continue this calculation until time 4, type 
.nf
    % treecode_q restore=state.data out=run_%03d.data tstop=4
.fi
.SH PERFORMANCE
The standard benchmark uses \fBnbody=4096\fP bodies, a timestep of
\fBdtime=1/32\fP, a smoothing length of \fBeps=0.025\fP, 
an accuracy parameter
\fBtheta=1.0\fP, and no quadrupole moments. A log
of the calculation is sent to standard output; no other output is
generated. On a 500 MHz Pentium, this test calculation takes about 1.2
minutes.
.nf
    mkplummer std4k 4096 seed=123
    stoa std4k std4k.tab
    time treecode1 std4k.tab > std4k.log
.fi
.SH DATA FORMAT
The data format used for in= and out= depends on the compilation option.
If compiled with the USE_NEMO_IO flag, the dataformat is in
\fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format, with a separate \fIPosition\fP
and \fIVelocity\fP, instead of the original \fIPhaseSpace\fP
.SH COMPILATION
The code can be compiled with various flags that will change the behavior of the code:
.nf
.ta +1.5i
USE_NEMO_IO	use NEMO I/O, thus snapshots (default in NEMO), instead of the "205" format (atos) 
BINARYIO	use binary output, complementary to the non-NEMO ascii I/O (default: none)
USEFREQ		use freq,freqout instead of dtime,dtout (the default)
QUICKSCAN	use the theta= accuracy parameter (the default) instead of a theta-scan
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
hackcode1(1NEMO), treecode(1NEMO), atos(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
http://www.ifa.hawaii.edu/faculty/barnes/treecode/treeguide.html
.fi
.SH FILES
src/nbody/evolve/hackcode/treecode1
.SH AUTHOR
Joshua Barnes, Peter Teuben (NEMO adaptation)
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
1999       	written, Tokyo, Japan	JEB
22-jun-01	V1.4 NEMO adaptation	PJT
25-apr-04	V1.4.2 added USE_NEMO_IO to do snapshot I/O	PJT
.fi
