.TH TSD 1NEMO "10 December 2004"
.SH NAME
tsd \- scan and report contents of an HDF4 SDS
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtsd\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtsd\fP lists the contents of a HDF Scientific Data Set (SDS). 
It can optionally print
out the data (in ascii format) from all or specified SDS#
to a specified file, with or without
their coordinate values. 
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP\fIhdf_file\fP
Input file (HDF FLOAT32 SDS), no default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fItable_file\fP
Optional output file in which an ascii dump of all SDS, printed side by side,
are dumped. Obviously in this mode all datasets must have the same rank and
shape, selected SDS that are not the same size and rank as the first one,
will not be displayed. Currently all the data are accumulated in memory.
Default: none.
.TP
\fBformat=\fP\fIC_fmt\fP
\fIprintf(3)\fP-like Format specification, in which the data will be dumped
if output requested. A space is automatically inserted between the columns
representing an SDS.
[Default: \fB%g\fP].
.TP
\fBcoord=t|f\fP
Print out the coordinate system too?  If selected, they will be printed
in the first NDIM columns (except if \fBdummy=f\fP was selected, see below),
followed by whichever columns were selected (see \fBselect=\fP below).
[Default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBselect=\fP
Select the SDS# by their position in the file, the first one being numbered 1.
[Default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBdummy=t|f\fP
Should coordinate values of dummy axes (of which the dimension is 1) be displayed?
Default: t
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
    % tsd hdf000bg
Found 3 scientific data sets in /d/hdf000bg
1: Y-VELOCITY AT TIME=0.00E+00(40,67) cm/sec  -> [2680 elements of type: 5 (FLOAT32)]
2: Z-VELOCITY AT TIME=0.00E+00(40,67) cm/sec  -> [2680 elements of type: 5 (FLOAT32)]
3: DENSITY AT TIME=0.00E+00(40,67) gms/cm**3  -> [2680 elements of type: 5 (FLOAT32)]
.fi
Note that the dimensions listed, (40,67) in the example above, are not
the usual FORTRAN-convention. The last index (67) will be the one running
fastest, i.e. data is stored (and dumped if requested) in 
column-major mode. For example, in the FITS 
conversion program (see \fIsdsfits(1NEMO)\fP) 
the header is rearranged as to make it appear row-major, but the data is not.
.SH LIMITATIONS
If multiple SDS exist, they must all have the same shape (or at least
have as much data as the first SDS in the file), otherwise un-allocated
memory is being accessed. Error control in that case depends on the
operating system.
.PP
If output (ascii) requested, all data from all SDS is allocated in memory.
.PP
The datatype of the SDS must be FLOAT32 (normally in fortran: \fIREAL*4\fP, 
and in C: \fIfloat\fP)
.PP 
The data is listed in the order of the file. 
.SH SEE ALSO
hdf(1), hdfls(1), fitssds(1NEMO), sdsfits(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
25-dec-94	V1.0 Created	PJT
21-may-95	V1.1/2 fixed a bug, added new output features	PJT
27-aug-96	V1.3 header output now to stderr (dprintf)	pjt
10-dec-04	V1.5 added dummy=	PJT
.fi
