.TH TXTPAR 1NEMO "3 February 2023"

.SH "NAME"
txtpar \- extract parameters from a text file, with optional math

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fBtxtpar in=\fPtext-file \fBp0=\fP \fBp1=\fP ...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBtxtpar\fP combines some of the often used combinations of
standard Unix text filtering programs like
\fIgrep(1)\fP and \fIawk(1)\fP, 
with \fInemoinp(3NEMO)\fP style math into one "simple" NEMO program. Although
\fItabmath(1NEMO)\fP can do some of this processing too, \fItxtpar(1NEMO)\fP's strength is
processing multiple lines in a reduction style, instead of filtering. It often simplifies
the esoteric syntax used in the grep/awk/sed pipes, but is much more limited.
.PP
.nf
     grep RA rsr.33551.driver.sum.txt  | head -1 | awk '{print $4}'
vs.
     txtpar rsr.33551.driver.sum.txt p0=RA,1,4
.fi
.PP
Normally one parameter is extracted per \fBp#=\fP directive, in a \fIword,row,col\fP fashion. Future option
will allow multiple \fIcol's\fP , but this is not implemented yet.
.PP
Comment lines in the input file are considered part of the text, they are not stripped out. Use
\fItabcomment(1NEMO)\fP first if you really need them removed.
.PP
Optionally additional math is allowed on the extracted parameters using \fInemoinp(1NEMO)\fP style expressions. In
this case, the parameters themselves are not output, but only the ones computed via \fBexpr=\fP. See EXAMPLES below
if you need both.
.PP
To extract values from a \fIkey=val\fP style parameter file, use \fInemopars(8NEMO)\fP.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input text file, containing marker words and numeric values to be parsed. 
No default.
.TP
\fBexpr=\fP\fIexpr1,...\fP
Optional expression(s), separated by commas, referencing the extracted parameters via the \fIfie(3NEMO)\fP parsing rules.
By default no expression is needed and each parameter is output as they appeared in the text file, however when \fBexpr=\fP is used, only those
newly computed values are output.  [Default: no expression given]
.TP
\fBformat=\fP\fIexpression\fP
A (\fIprintf(3)\fP) format specification applied to the computed expressions
with which the parameters are written to output [Default: \fB%g\fP].
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fIseed\fP
Integer initial seed in case random numbers have been used in the expression.
If 0 is given, the time of the day will be used (see 
\fIxrandom(3NEMO)\fP for other special seed values)
to initialize the random number generator. [Default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBnewline=t|f\fP
Should a newline be used between output values. [Default: \fBf\fP]
.TP
\fBmaxline=\fP\fImax\fP
In case a NEMO/unix pipe is used, the maximum number of lines will need to be specified. [Default: 10000]
.TP
\fBp#=\fP\fI[word,]row,col,...\fP
Parameter selection directive in the indexed keyword notation (e.g. p0=, p1=, p2=), see \fIgetparam(3NEMO)\fP.
\fIword\fP is the string to search on (with some limited grep syntax), but can be blank if all lines need to apply.
\fIrow\fP is an integer, and is the row-th occurance from the \fIword\fP match. 1 would be the first, 2 the 2nd, -1 the last, -2 the one but last etc.
0 is not an allowed row number.
\fIcol\fP is an integer, and designates the "column" to look for in the current row (line), 1 would be the first word, -1 the last etc.
Multiple \fIcol\fP will be allowed in a future version, but currently not available. 0 is not an allowed col number.

At least one parameter needs to be given: \fBp0=\fP.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Here is an example of extracting three values and converting them to two output values:
.nf

       txtpar in=example.txt expr="log(abs(%1)),log(abs(%3/%2))" format=%.3f \\
              p1=Worst,1,9  p2=QAC,1,3 par3=QAC,1,4
	
       cat example.txt
       \fIWorst fractional energy loss dE/E = (E_t-E_0)/E_0 = 0.00146761 at T = 1.28125
       QAC_STATS: - 0.039966 0.0274195 0.00185505 0.135854  0.799319 1  20
       \fP

.fi

.PP
If both original values as well as newly computed \fBexpr=\fP are desired in the output (this is the default
behavior in \fItabmath(1NEMO)\fP), an extra pipe using
\fItabmath(1NEMO)\fP) is needed. Here is an example to add the first column in the first two lines of a table
in both forms, with and without the original values
.nf

      txtpar example.txt p0=1,1 p1=2,1 | tabmath - - %1+%2 format=%.3f
      txtpar example.txt %1+%2 %.3f p0=1,1 p1=2,1 

.fi

.SH "CAVEATS"
This program is not intended for streaming very large files, as the file is read into memory for processing
and each parameter could potentially cause a search through the file.

.SH "TODO"
On the wishlist are relative row/col w.r.t. the matched word using an explicit + or - in front
of the row or col:
.nf
     p0=word,+row,col
     p0=word,row,-col
.fi     

.SH "SEE ALSO"
grep(1), awk(1), nemopars(8NEMO), tabmath(1NEMO), tabrows(1NEMO), tabcomment(1NEMO), table(5NEMO), run(1NEMO)

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
27-dec-2021	V0.1 simple draft written - implemented simple version	PJT
.fi
