.TH U3TOS 1NEMO "5 April 2019"
.SH NAME
u3tos \- Convert NBODY unit 3 output data to snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBu3tos\fP \fBin=\fP\fIOUT3\fP \fBout=\fP\fIsnapshot_file\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIu3tos\fP converts the output of one of the Aarseth
NBODY integrators (see e.g. \fInbody1(1NEMO)\fP) to a 
snapshot file for further manipulation wihtin NEMO.
.PP
The binary output file (normally called \fBOUT3\fP) normally
has to be converted on the host machine where the simulations
have been run, although some support exists for cross-platform
usage, in particular when only endianism is the issue.
.PP
It is strongly recommended to 
use \fIunfio(1NEMO)\fP and check if a dataset looks ok. You may also 
need to set \fBswap=t\fP in this program, as well as
a \fBmode=\fP and \fBheader=\fP choice.
.PP
A tricky part of the format is the inclusion of (for lack of a better name) \fIvirtual\fP particles,
which describe a KS object. Normally these are the result of close binaries
(or higher order chain) being regularized. The \fBnbody=\fP can be used to exlude
such particles. The result is now that each snapshot in an integration will have the
same number of particles.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input file (in NBODY's OUT3 binary format). Is known to work with OUT3
files from NBODY1, NBODY2 and NBODY5. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output file (snapshot(5NEMO) format). No default.
.TP
\fBframe=\fP
Frames to read (0=all). Currently only 1 frame, or all, can be selected
for output. Default: 0.
.TP
\fBalen=\fP
Use this if you need to override the length of the \fBA\fP array
that is present in the data dumps. Normally the header I/O routine
will figure this out for you. There are some older format
dumps that do not contain this variable. Use 0 to process old
datafiles that do not have an A array.
By default this variable is not set (autodetection via header).
.TP
\fBswap=t|f\fP
Should bytes be swapped upon reading? This allows
reading data that were created on a machine that had the
opposite endianism from the one you're using this program one.
By default no byte swapping is performed.
.TP
\fBmode=1|2|4|6\fP
Which of the nbodyX style of output to support. Allowed are 1 and 2 (identical
actually), 4 (which also outputs rho and phi,and an addition key for each
particle), and 6. Default: 1
.TP
\fBkey=name|key\fP
Which of the NBODY6 arrays to put in the Key snapshot tag.
.TP
\fBheader=|4|8\fP
Header size of the fortran unformatted data. This is 4 (old fortran) or 8 (modern
compilers, such as gfortran). 
By default the value determined to be the correct value for your compiler is used.
.TP
\fBinteger=2|4\fP
Signal the reader what kind of INTEGERs were used in the output dataset.
Older data may have used INTEGER*2, which limits the number of particles
to 32767, patched programs (and presumably later official versions from Sverre)
will always write INTEGER*4 (or having the same size as a REAL),
[Default: \fB4\fP].
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP
Limit the body number ("NAME" in NBODY6, and \fIKey\fP if \fPkey=name\fP) written.
This will effectly remove the virtual KS particles in case binaries were regularized.
Default: not used.
.SH CAVEATS
At the current time the \fBmode=\fP and \fBheader=\fP must be known in order
for the conversion to succeed. There is no runtime autodetection of formats yet.
.PP
Potentials are stored as positive values, scaled by the wrong mass still.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH SEE ALSO
nbody1(1NEMO), runbody4(1NEMO), unfio(1NEMO), u4tos(1NEMO) stou4(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
07-Apr-93	V1.0 Created	PJT
29-mar-94	V1.1 added optional override alen=, deleted mode=	PJT
10-jun-95	V1.1c  bug in alen implementation fixed   	PJT
1-mar-06	V1.2 nbody4 support	PJT
4-mar-06	V1.4 header= has now a blank default	PJT
19-feb-19	V1.6 added support for nbody6++ (mode=6)	PJT
5-apr-19	V1.7 nbody= to limit particle output for nbody6	PJT
.fi

