.TH UNBIND 1NEMO "24 October 1988"
.SH NAME
unbind \- find unbound stars to a stellar system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBunbind in=\fPsnapshot_in \fBout=\fPsnapshot_out [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBunbind\fP tries to find stars that are unbound to a stellar system.
It simply calculates the binding energy (per unit mass) and flags
the stars for which this is larger than a specified cutoff energy (\fBecutoff\fP)
are flagged as 'escaped'. The program outputs the stars which are either
bound or unbind to the system. 
.PP
The Key field (an integer) in the \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP data is also copied
accordingly; when it is not present it will be initialized to the order of
particles present in the input file, \fB0\fP being the first one, and \fBnbody-1\fP
the last one.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword is also
given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fIin-file\fP
input file, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. If potentials are not
present in the snapshot, an (expansive) exact N-squared energy 
calculation is forced. [no default]
.TP
\fBout=\fIout-file\fP
output file, in \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format, containing
the masses and phasespace coordinates of the (un)bound particles [no default].
.TP
\fBexact=\fBt|f\fP
Logical determining if you want force an exact
N-squared calculation, in case potentials were found to be present in the 
snapshot [default: \fBf\fP].
.TP
\fBeps=\fIvalue\fP
Softening parameter used in energy calculations in case an exact
N-squared energy calculation is done.
[default: \fB0.025\fP]
.TP
\fBecutoff=\fIvalue\fP
Cutoff of binding energy (per unit mass), above which the stars will be removed 
from the snapshot
[default: \fB0\fP].
.TP
\fBbind=t|f\fP
Logical determining if the bound (\fBt\fP) or unbound (\fBf\fP) 
stars should be written to file
[default: \fBt\fP, i.e. bound stars are written to file].
.TP
\fBmap=t|f\fP
Logical determining if you want a map displayed by star number of the
stars bound and unbound to the system. This is handy to compare
maps of the same system under slightly different conditions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snapmask(1NEMO), skid(1TIPSY)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2.5i
~/src/pjt/nbody   	unbind.c unbind.1
.fi
.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +2.0i +2.0i
12-Nov-87	V1.0 created          	Peter Teuben
15-Nov-87	V1.2 cutoff and output added 	PJT
19-nov-87	V1.3 bind keyword added	PJT
9-Mar-88	V1.4 memory allocation better	PJT
xx-apr-88	V1.6 added map option PJT
6-jun-88	V1.7 new filestruct - keywords changed	PJT
24-oct-88	V1.8 added Key copy	PJT
.fi
