.TH UNFIO 1NEMO "8 May 2008"
.SH NAME
unfio \- access fortran unformatted I/O files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBunfio\fP \fBin=\fP\fIinput_file\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBunfio\fP scans (and optionally dumps) a binary file, created with a 
FORTRAN program with the \fIform='unformatted'\fP OPEN statement.
.PP
It is currently only implemented for BSD-type fortran compilers with
arbitrary endianism of the bytes (i.e. probably excluding 
VMS and Cray compilers). Depending on the compiler, the header
size can be 8 instead of the classic 4. See \fBheader=\fP below.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input file. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
output file. Fortran headers and trailers have been stripped off. If you
need ASCII output, this keyword should be left alone, use type=,format=
to control how you want to "see" the numbers.
Default: no output.
.TP
\fBblock=\fP
which block to display (0=all, default: scan). By default it will scan
the file and report the blocksize.
.TP
\fBtype=\fP
Format (valid are: {int, float, double}) of the data-item. This
assumes all data in a block has the same type.
.TP
\fBselect=\fP
Which items to select in a block. The default is all. Any 
\fInemoinp(3NEMO)\fP  expression can be given.
Default: all.
.TP
\fBformat=\fP
The \fIprintf(3)\fP format to use when displaying a block display [%d,%g].
.TP
\fBcount=t|f\fP
A logical denoting if to display an element counter too?.
.TP
\fBmaxbuf=\fP
buffersize in bytes, to read a block.
.TP 
\fBswap=\fP
Swap bytes after low level read? This only applies to the header, not to
the actual data. Programmers must still do this themselves. If using a
specific block to display, the data bytes are swapped based on the
data type given by \fBtype=\fP.
.TP 
\fBheader=|0|4|8\fP
Size of the header uses in unformatted fortran data. This used to be 4,
but modern compilers (e.g. gfortran) may very well use 8. By default it
is not specified, and the value determined to be the correct one during
install (UNFIO_HDR_SIZE) is used. This keyword can be used to force
another value. 0 is also supported to read raw binary data.
.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose we have a dataset that somebody dumped via fortran, and 
.nf
unfio dump.dat
52
2400000
2400000
.fi
which after knowing from the author that there are 200,000 bodies in here,
and positions and velocities are written seperately, we can decipher in
the following way
.nf
unfio dump.dat - 2 f maxbuf=2400000 | tabtos - pos.snap nbody=200000 time=1
.fi
.PP
Here is an example of reading the frequency table of a miriad bandpass calibration
file with 6 spectral windows, on an little endian architecture machine:
.nf
   % unfio vis/freqs header=0 maxbuf=152 format=%g block=1 count=1 swap=t type=d
   % unfio vis/freqs header=0 maxbuf=152 format=%d block=1 count=t swap=t type=i
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
bswap(1NEMO), unfio(3NEMO), bswap(3NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
9-Aug-95	V1.1 Documented 	PJT
21-jun-97	V1.2 added select=	PJT
7-feb-98	V2.0 added out=    	PJT
19-mar-99	V2.1 out= also uses select= now 	PJT
1-mar-06	V2.2 added header=4|8	PJT
4-mar-06	V2.3 header=now blank value	PJT
8-may-08	V2.4 support header=0	PJT
.fi
