.TH uns2uns 1NEMO "March 17, 2020"
.SH NAME
uns2uns \- a universal converting tool for UNS snapshots.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBuns2uns in=\fPuns_input\fB out=\fPuns_output\fB
select=\fPselection\fB type=\fPuns_type\fB [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIuns2uns\fP reads an UNS N-body systems and outputs another UNS
N-body systems. It can convert an uns input file to an uns output
file. It can also copy out some components and/or physical quantities from
an uns file to another one.
.PP
In and Out can be in a different type (ex conversion from
Nemo to Gadget OR Gadget to Nemo). 
.PP
In and Out can also be in the same format and the user
can select a subset of the components and/or a subset of physical
quantities to save.
.PP
There are two kinds of nbody file structure:
.TP 0
- \fBrange\fP file structure (\fIRFS\fP), like NEMO, where  data are identified
  by range of indexes (ex 0:999 for the disk and 1000:9999  for the halo).  
.TP 0
- \fBcomponent\fP file structure (\fICFS\fP), like GADGET or RAMSES where data are identified by
  component name (disk, gas, halo, stars, bulge, bndry).
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 12
\fBin=\fP\fIuns input file\fP
Currently, the following input files are supported: Nemo, Gadget3,
Gadget2, Gadget1, RAMSES, list of files, sqlite3 uns data base
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIuns output file\fP
Output data will be written to \fIout_file\fP in the format type
specified from the parameter \fBtype=\fP
.TP
\fBselect=\fP\fIinput/output particles selection\fP
this parameter select the input particles which will be saved in the
output file. There are several possible syntax. It can be a range of
index (RFS input, ex: select=0:999,3000:4000 ) or a list of components
(CFS input, ex: select=disk,stars), separated by coma.

There are a special syntax when in=RFS and out=CFS (ex Nemo to Gadget
conversion), which is : select=comp1@range+comp2@range (ex:
select=gas@0:1000+disk@300:400). For more details, see EXAMPLES below.
.TP
\fBtype=\fP\fIuns type format\fP
we specify here the type of the output file.
Currently, the following output files are supported: nemo, gadget2, gadget3
.TP
\fBbits=\fP\fIphysical quantities to saved\fP
If this parameter is left blank, then all physical quantities will be
saved, this is the default behaviour. Here is the list of differents
values:
  'm'  mass
  'x'  position
  'v'  velolcity
  'p'  potential
  'a'  acceleration
  'e'  softening
  'k'  keys array (from nemo)
  'X'  aux array  (from nemo)
  'R'  density
  'I'  particles's Id
  'U'  Internal energy
  'M'  metallicity
  'A'  stars's age
  'H'  hsml
  'T'  temperature

  ex: bits=xRH will save positions, densities and hsml
  
  (see also : 
https://projets.lam.fr/projects/unsio/wiki/UnsioVariablesUtilisation#How-to-select-data-at-loading)

.SH EXAMPLES
In the following examples, we assume that \fIfileg2\fP is a GADGET2 file,
\fIfilenemo\fP is a NEMO file, \fIfilelist\fP is a list of file and
\fIsimname\fP is a simulation's name stored in an uns sqlite3 database.
.TP 5
\fB- Gadget to Nemo conversion:\fP
1) uns2uns in=fileg2 out=filenemo select=disk,stars type=nemo bits=mx

Convert a gadget file to nemo file, by selecting the mass and the
positions of disk and stars components.

2) uns2uns in=filelist out=filenemo select=disk,stars type=nemo
bits=mx first=t

Do exactly the same conversion as 1) but from a list of file. Each
output files will have a trailing number.
.TP
\fB- Nemo to Gadget conversion:\fP
uns2uns in=filenemo out=fileg2 select=gas@0:100+halo@200:300 type=gadget2

Convert a Nemo file to Gadget2 by setting nemo particles from range
[0:100] to gadget2 gas component, and nemo particles from range
[200:300] to gadget2 halo component.
.TP
\fB- Physical quantities selection:\fP
1) uns2uns in=fileg2 out=fileg22 select=gas type=gadget2 bits=xRH

Create a gadget2 file from another gadget2 file, by keeping only
positions, densities and hsml of gas component.

2) uns2uns in=simname out=fileg22 select=gas type=gadget2 bits=xRH first=t

Do exactly the same thing as 1) but on all files stored in the uns
sqlite3 database which match to entry 'simname'. Each
output files will have a trailing number.

.SH SEE ALSO
snapmask(1NEMO), snapcopy(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), uns_info(1NEMO)
.TP
https://projets.lam.fr/projects/unsio/wiki

.SH AUTHOR
Jean-Charles LAMBERT
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
05-Jul-11	V1.0 created	JCL
17-Mar-20	V2.0 bugs fixed	JCL
.fi

