.TH uns_density 1NEMO "March 17, 2020"
.SH NAME
uns_density \- estimate mass density based on distance to Kth neighbour, add distance to the kth neighbours
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBuns_density in=\fPin_file \fBout=\fPout_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIuns_density\fP reads a compatible UNS snapshot, estimate mass
density based on distance to Kth neighbour, add distance to the kth
neighbours, and save it in a NEMO format file. It computes very
quickly density by using falcON library from Walter Dehnen (WD). It works
like density program (WD) but accepts UNS input snapshot, plus 2
differents method to estimate density, making it more versatile.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBin=\fP\fIuns input file snapshot\fP
give as input a compatible UNS file snapshot (Nemo, Gadget, Ramses...)
Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIout_file\fP
Output NEMO file name. You can give a filename or "-" (to pipe with
another NEMO program). Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBselect=\fP\fIselect-particles\fP
Select particles. Set of particles must be selected using the ":" range operator, separated by a comma. 
E.g. select=0:9,10:19 would select two sets of 10 particles, or by
component (gas,halo,stars,bulge,disk,bndry) for Gadget/Ramses
files. E.g. select=gas,stars . Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBm=\fP\fImethod\fP
select method to approximate density, 0:used by density program (WD),
1:used by hackdens program [0]
.TP
\fBK=\fP\fInumber of neighbours\fP
select number of neighbours to approximate density [32]
.TP
\fBN=\fP\fIorder\fP
order of Ferrers kernel [1]
.TP
\fBncrit=\fP\fvalue\fP
ncrit value, if empty=max(1,K/4) []
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime-range\fP
Select time [all]
.TP
\fBfirst=\fP\fIboolean\fP
if true, add a trailing number to the first output file [f]
.TP
\fBoffset=\fP\fItime offset\fP
 +/- time offset between two consecutives snapshots [0.01]
.TP
\fBverbose=\fP\fIflag\fP
If true, give some verbose output [t].
.TP
.SH SEE ALSO
falcON(1falcON), hackdens(1NEMO), uns_projects(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.TP
https://projets.lam.fr/projects/unsio/wiki
.SH AUTHOR
Jean-Charles LAMBERT
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
17-Mar-20	V2.0 manual created	JCL
.fi

