.TH UNS_2DPLOT 1NEMO "March 17, 2020"
.SH NAME
uns_2dplot \- create a 2D image of an UNS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBuns_2dplot in=\fPuns_file \fBselect=\fPrange-or-component\f  [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIuns_2dplot\fP reads an UNS snapshot and plot a 2D image of the
particles positions. Each particles are smoothed by a gaussian and
colored according to a logscale colormap. The final effect give the
illusion that the object has been colored by density. The rendering
that you  get, looks like the one you get with glnemo2(see man
glnemo2) on gas particles.
.PP
The computation of all gaussian is multithreaded and the number of threads used can be
selected from the command line.

.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBin=\fP\fIuns input file\fP
Currently, the following input files are supported: Nemo regular, Nemo
piped, Gadget3, Gadget2, Gadget1, Ramses, list of files
.TP
\fBselect=\fP\fIselect-particles\fP
Select particles. Sets of particles must be selected using the : range operator, separated by a comma. 
E.g. select=0:9,10:19 would select two sets of 10 particles, or by component (gas,halo,stars,bulge,disk,bndry)
[all]
.TP
\fBprop=\fP\fproperties to display (metal,age,temp,rho)\fP
In case of structured snapshots like Gagdet or Ramses, you can select
the properties you want to display (metal,age,temp,rho). By default it
displays accumulated density of particles in the light of see.
.TP
\fBpsort=\fP\f sort properties\fP
sort properties according to 0:none, 1:min, 2:max. The default is [0]
no sorting. 
.TP
\fBdev=\fP\fIoutput-image-file\fP
you specify here the output name of the image which will be automatically saved in GIF
format. If you give only the character '?', PGPLOT will ask you,
interactively, in which format you would like to save the image [?]
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime-range\fP
Select time [all]     
.TP
\fBrange=\fP\fIrange-for-all-axis\fP
give the same range for all x,y and z axis. [-range:range], default none.
.TP
\fBxrange=\fP\fIx-axis-range\fP
Range of  values  for  the  X  axis,  specified
with a pair of numbers separated   by  a  colon.   The  default  range  is [-35.0:35.0].
.TP
\fByrange=\fP\fIy-axis-range\fP
.TP
\fBzrange=\fP\fIz-axis-range\fP
.TP
\fBxy=\fP\fIdisplay-xy-plan?\fP
select as true if you want to display particles in XY plan. Default is
[t].
.TP
\fBxz=\fP\fIdisplay-xz-plan?\fP
select as true if you want to display particles in XZ plan. Default is
[t].
.TP
\fBzy=\fP\fIdisplay-zy-plan?\fP
select as true if you want to display particles in ZY plan. Default is
[f].
.TP
\fBcom=\fP\fIcenter-of-mass?\fP
center according to center if mass. Default is [t].
.TP
\fBhsml=\fP\fIuse hydro smooth length\fP
Use hydro smooth length if exists, default [f] false
.TP
\fBcb=\fP\fItoggle color map\fP
default is false [f]
.TP
\fBcmap=\fP\fIselect color map\fP
available color maps 0:rainbow, 1:heat, 2:gray, default is [0]
.TP
\fBitf=\fP\fIimage transfer function\fP
image transer function 0:linear, 1:logarithmic, 2:square-root, default [1]
.TP
\fBsview=\fP\fIsingle-display-view?\fP
if true, only one image will be created for all requested plan
xy|xz|zy. If false, and if a name is given to 'dev' parameter, then a
separated gif file will be created for each plan xy|xz|zy.
Default is [t].
.TP
\fBtitle=\fP\fIimage-title\fP
give here a title for the image
.TP
\fBpfname=\fP\fprint-file-name?\fP
if true, simulation's filename will be displayed, default [t]
.TP
\fBno=\fP\fIindex-image-offset\fP
specify the filename index offset of the image, default [0]
.TP
\fBpixel=\fP\fIgaussian-pixel-size\fP
size in pixel of the gaussian [20]
.TP
\fBdimx=\fP\fIinternal-width\fP
internal image width in pixels [1024]
.TP
\fBdimy=\fP\fIinternal-height\fP
internal image height in pixels [1024]
.TP
\fBgp=\fP\fIgaussian-parameter\fP
gaussian parameter [5]
.TP
\fBthreads=\fP\fI#threads-used\fP
number threads used for the computation [2]
.TP
\fBverbose=\fP\fIverbose?\fP
display some verbose log [f]
.TP
.TP
.SH SEE ALSO
snapplot(1NEMO), snapgrid(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO), glnemo2(1NEMO),
uns_projects(1NEMO)
.TP
https://projets.lam.fr/projects/unsio/wiki
.SH AUTHOR
Jean-Charles LAMBERT
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
09-Nov-10	V1.0 public release	JCL
17-Mar-20	V2.0 bugs fixes		JCL
.fi

