.TH uns_addgravity "March 17, 2020"

.SH name
uns_addgravity \- adds gravity to a snapshot; using falcON (public version)

.SH synopsis
\fBuns_addgravity\fP [parameter=value]

.SH description
\fBuns_addgravity\fP it's based on addgravity program by Walter Dehnen
(WD). It uses Walter Dehnen's force algorithm of complexity
O(N) (\fBfalcON\fP), to add the gravitational potential and
accelerations to an \fBUNS snapshots\fP.

.SH parameters

.TP 12
\fBin=\fP\fIfile\fP
Input snapshots are read from \fIfile\fP, which must an UNS
snapshot format (NEMO, Gadget1/2/3, Ramses, etc..). If \fIfile\fP=-, input is expected from stdin,
useful for piping data from another program. Default: \fBrequired\fP
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIfile\fP
Snapshots are written in NEMO snapshot format to \fIfile\fP with same
body data as the input plus acceleration and potential.  Default:
\fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBselect=\fP\fIselect-particles\fP
Select particles. Set of particles must be selected using the ":" range operator, separated by a comma. 
E.g. select=0:9,10:19 would select two sets of 10 particles, or by
component (gas,halo,stars,bulge,disk,bndry) for Gadget/Ramses
files. E.g. select=gas,stars . Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime range(s)\fP
Range(s) of simulation times, for which snapshots shall be processed.
Default: \fBall\fP.
.TP
\fBeps=\fP\fIval\fP
The (globally constant) softening length is set to \fIval\fP. For
details, see documentation in the user guide. Default: \fB0.05\fP.
.TP
\fBkernel=\fP\fInum\fP
The softening kernel is taken to be the P\fInum\fP kernel (see the
documentation in the user guide). Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBtheta=\fP\fIval\fP
The tolerance parameter for \fBfalcON\fP is set to \fIval\fP. It is
recommended to stick to the default or smaller value, but see the
discussion in the \fBfalcON\fP user guide Default: \fB0.6\fP.
.TP
\fBncrit=\fP\fInum\fP
In building the tree, a cell containg \fInum\fP bodies or less is not
splitted. Default: \fB6\fP.
.TP
\fBfirst=\fP\fIboolean\fP
if true, add a trailing number to the first output file [f]
.TP
\fBoffset=\fP\fItime offset\fP
 +/- time offset between two consecutives snapshots [0.01]
.TP
\fBverbose=\fP\fIflag\fP
If true, give some verbose output [t].

.SH see also
addgravity(1falcON) gyrfalcON(1falcON), getgravity(1falcON)
.TP
https://projets.lam.fr/projects/unsio/wiki
.PP
.nf
Dehnen, W., 2000, ApJ, 536, L39
Dehnen, W., 2002, JCP, 179, 27

.fi
.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf                         \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP
.fi
.SH author
.nf
Jean-Charles LAMBERT
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
17-Mar-20	first version of manual  JCL
.fi


