.TH VELCUBE 1NEMO "29 May 2004"

.SH "NAME"
velcube \- create a data cube from a velocity field

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBvelcube\fP [parameter=value]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBvelcube\fP creates a theoretical position-position-velocity
data cube with signal derived from a velocity field (required)
surface density and velocity dispersion map (both optional).
.PP

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.so man1/parameters
.TP 20
\fBout=\fP
Output file name (a cube) in \fIimage(5NEMO)\fP format. 
The X,Y coordinates will be inherited from the input velocity
field, the Z coordinates set via \fBnz=\fP 
and \fBzrange=\fP (see below).
No default.
.TP
\fBinvel=\fP
Input velocity field. No default. This map
.TP
\fBinden=\fP
Input surface density (optional). 
Should be 0 or positive
Negative densities are skipped and reported.
.TP
\fBinsig=\fP
Input velocity dispersion map (optional).
Should be 0 or positive
Negative dispersions are skipped and reported. Zero
dispersion amounts to only 1 slice to be populated.
.TP
\fBzrange=\fP\fIlow:high\fP
Range in (Z) velocity. The lower value must really be lower than the higher
value.  [-2:2].
.TP
\fBnz=\fP
Number of gridding pixels in Z [64]  
.TP
\fBsigdefault=\fP
Default (constant)
velocity dispersion in case no dispersion map is given. [0].

.SH "EXAMPLES"
A model velocity field can be easily made with \fIccdvel(1NEM0)\fP, and 
using the \fBamp=t\fP keyword density and dispersion (sigma) maps can also
be created. Another way to create a smooth velocity field is using 
\fIrotcurshape(1NEMO)\fP using a 0 input map and fixing all fittable parameters.
The resulting output residual map then contains -1 times the desired
velocity field.
.PP
.nf
  nemoinp 0:100:1 > map1.radt
  tabmath map1.radt - "%1/sqrt(40+%1*%1)" all > map1.velt
  ccdvel out=map1.vel radii=@map1.radt vrot=@map1.velt pa=30 inc=60 size=256
.fi
.PP
Here is an example of creating a (0/1) mask cube based on where you expect emission
from a rotating disk given the geometry
.nf

ccdvel out=$tmp.d radii=0,$r0,$r1 vrot=1,1,1      inc=$inc pa=$pa size=$nx cell=$cell amp=t
ccdvel out=$tmp.v radii=0,$r0,$r1 vrot=0,$v1,$v1  inc=$inc pa=$pa size=$nx cell=$cell amp=f vsys=$vsys
ccdvel out=$tmp.s radii=0,$r0,$r1 vrot=100,100,50 inc=$inc pa=$pa size=$nx cell=$cell amp=t
velcube - $tmp.v $tmp.d zrange=${vsys}-5*${nz}:${vsys}+5*${nz} nz=$nz sigdefault=$sig |\\
  ccdmath - -  'ifgt(%1,0,1,0)' |\\
  ccdfits - $mask refmap=$refmap refaxis=1,2,3 crpix=$nx/2,$nx/2,$nz/2 cdelt=-$cell/3600,$cell/3600,$chan 

.fi
where a $refmap was used to inherit the WCS from.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ccdvel(1NEMO) , ccdmath(1NEMO) , rotcurshape(1NEMO)

.SH "FILES"
src/image/rotcur/velcube.c

.SH "AUTHOR"
Peter Teuben

.SH "UPDATE HISTORY"
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
29-May-04	V1.0 Created	PJT
6-may-2021	Add full example	PJT
.fi
