.TH VELFITPATCH 1NEMO "26 July 2015"
.SH NAME
velfitpatch \- fit local linear velocity field 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvelfitpatch\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvelfitpatch\fP fits a local linear velocity field 
(v = vc + ox * x + oy * y) to a small square region around
each point in a velocity field. Output can be specified to
be in linear gradients (ox,oy) or a radial,position angle (om,pa)
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
input velocity field. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
basename for 3 output files (vc,ox,oy) or (vc,om,pa). See \fmode\fP.
.TP
\fBpatch=\fP
Patch (size of box will be 2*patch+1) [3]
.TP
\fBscale=\fP
Scale factor for gradients [1]   
.TP
\fBblank=\fP
Blank Value in velocity field [0.0]  
.TP
\fBmode=\fP
Output mode (xy derivates, vs. gp (gradient/positionangle) [xy]
.TP
\fBtab=\fP
If given, tabular output file name [] 
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is an example of following the velocities along a set of (x,y) positions in a map:
.nf
    velfitpatch in=mom1 out=fit1 mode=rt
    ccdtrace fit1.vc fit1.vctab xytrace.tab cumul=t
    ccdtrace fit1.om fit1.omtab xytrace.tab
    ccdtrace fit1.pa fit1.patab xytrace.tab
    paste fit1.vc fit1.om fit1.pa | awk '{print $4,$3,$7,$10}' > fit1.vop
.fi
resulting in a file \fIfit1.vop\fP, with columns  L,Vc,Omega,P.A,
where L is the length along the trace. Watch out for units. See \fIccdtrace(1NEMO)\fP
for more info on units.
.SH SEE ALSO
rotcur(1NEMO), ccdtrace(1NEMO), image(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
26-Jul-15	V0.1 Created	PJT
.fi
