.TH WCS 1NEMO "21 September 2005"
.SH NAME
wcs \- coordinate transforms 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwcs\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwcs\fP is really a wrapper for AIPS worldpos/xypix WCS routines
(\fIworldpos(3NEMO)\fP), much like the \fItestpos.c\fP routine that
is publicly available, but with a more typical NEMO 
command line user interface.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBref=\fP
The reference coordinates (deg) at the reference pixel. Two numbers
are required. 
These will typically be the equivalent of the \fBcrval\fP in \fIfits(5NEMO)\fP.
.TP
\fBrefpix=\fP
The reference pixels (pixels). They can be floating point numbers and
do not have to be on or inside a 'grid'. Two numbers are required.
These will typically be the equivalent of the \fBcrpix\fP in \fIfits(5NEMO)\fP.
.TP
\fBinc=\fP
Increment at the reference pixel.
These will typically be the equivalent of the \fBcdelt\fP in \fIfits(5NEMO)\fP.
.TP
\fBrot=\fP
Rotation angle (deg) (from N through E) at the reference pixel
These will typically be the equivalent of the \fBcrota\fP in \fIfits(5NEMO)\fP..
.TP
\fBtype=\fP
Projection type (SIN, TAN, ARC, NCP, GLS, MER, AIT).
These will typically the last 4 characters in the \fBctype\fP in \fIfits(5NEMO)\fP.
.TP
\fBformat=\fP
Output \fIprintf(3)\fP-style format. [Default: %g].
.TP
\fBpix=\fP
Input Pixel number coordinates. Either one of \fBpix=\fP
or \fBpos=\fP must be given, if this one is given, conversion
to world coordinates is done. Note that pixels are 1-based in FITS,
and 0-based in NEMO.
.TP
\fBpos=\fP
Input World Coordinates. If this one is given, conversion
to pixel coordinates is done
.TP
\fBhms=t|f\fP
Determines if the first coordinate, the longitude, should be printed in
H:M:S (the default) or D:M:S format.
.SH EXAMPLES
For a given $ra, $dec and $fitsfile, the corresponding pixel positions are computed.
.nf
set crpix1=`fitshead $b | grep -w ^CRPIX1 | awk '{print $3}'`
set crpix2=`fitshead $b | grep -w ^CRPIX2 | awk '{print $3}'`
set crval1=`fitshead $b | grep -w ^CRVAL1 | awk '{print $3}'`
set crval2=`fitshead $b | grep -w ^CRVAL2 | awk '{print $3}'`
set cdelt1=`fitshead $b | grep -w ^CDELT1 | awk '{print $3}'`
set cdelt2=`fitshead $b | grep -w ^CDELT2 | awk '{print $3}'`

set pix=(`wcs ref=$crval1,$crval2 refpix=$crpix1,$crpix2 inc=$cdelt1,$cdelt2 rot=0 type=TAN pos=$ra,$dec`)

.fi
.PP
Here is an example how to find out what the circumscribing "box" is around a curved
RA-DEC plate in the \fBTAN\fP projection:
.nf

.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
worldpos(3NEMO), ccdtrace(1NEMO), nemoinp(1NEMO), nemoinpx(3NEMO), tabdms(1NEMO), impos(1MIRIAD), 
xy2sky(1WCSTOOLS), sky2xy(1WCSTOOLS)
.SH FILES
src/image/wcs	 - source code
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
14-oct-94	written	PJT
2-apr-96	V1.0 man page created	PJT
2-mar-03	V1.1 fixed pos->pix error; finally added to NEMO	PJT
4-mar-03	V1.2 allow hms/dms conversions using nemoinpx	PJT
7-may-04	V1.3 added hms= keyword   	PJT
.fi
