.TH XRANDOM 1NEMO "9 October 2012"
.SH NAME
xrandom \- Return seed for random numbers and optionally random numbers
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxrandom\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBxrandom\fP returns a seed that can be used to random number generators,
and optionally random numbers drawn from a uniform or gaussian (normal)
distribution. Uniform numbers are between 0 and 1, gaussian numbers 
have a mean of 0 and a dispersion of 1. 
.PP
If compiled with GSL, random number generator types 
can be selected, as well as many more distribution types.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBseed=\fP
Initial seed. Use 0 for the current time (seconds since 1970.00,
see also \fItime(2)\fP)
-1 for the number of centiseconds since boot (see \fItimes(2)\fP) 
and 2 for the current pid (see \fIgetpid(2)\fP).  If GSL is implemented
the seed value can be optionally followed by the random number 
generator type (default: mt19937). See \fIxrandom(3)\fP for more
details.
\fBn=\fP
Number of random numbers to draw 
[Default: 0].
.TP
\fBm=\fP
Number of times to repeat the experiment. If more than 1, tabulating
is turned off, and reporting is now doine at the end of all tests,
and the statistics of the mean's from each \fBn\fP sample is shown.
[Default: 1].
.TP
\fBgauss=\fP
Return gaussian numbers instead of uniform?
[Default: f]
.TP
\fBreport=\fP
Report mean/dispersion/skewness/kurtosis? 
[Default: f]
.TP
\fBtab=t|f\fP
Tabulate all random numbers [t]
.TP
\fBoffset=\fP
Offset of distribution from 0. Default: 0.0
.TP
\fBgsl=\fP
Name of the random number distribution requested. They follow the name convention
of the same-name functions \fIgsl_random_xxx\fP in the \fIgsl(3)\fP library.
No default.
.TP
\fBpars=\fP
Parameters belonging to the selected \fBgsl\fP name. They need to match
exactly (0, 1, 2 or 3 currently). No default.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is an example script, \fBgrandom.csh\fP, 
to test if the error in the mean scales
as 1/sqrt(N):
.nf

#! /bin/csh -f
#
#       n1: sample size 
#       n2: number of times to do the experiment

set n1=100
set n2=100
foreach i (`nemoinp 1:$n2`)
  set log=(`xrandom -1 100 t | tail +2 | tabhist - tab=t |& grep ^Mean`)
  echo $log[5]
end

.fi
This script outputs \fBn2\fP numbers, of which the mean should be 0 and the
dispersion (now the error in the mean) 1/sqrt(n2), where 0 and 1 are the
mean and dispersion of a random gaussian number from \fIgrandom(3NEMO)\fP:
.nf

       % grandom.csh | tabhist -
100 values read
min and max value in column 1: [-0.335527 : 0.348629]
Number of points     : 100
Mean and dispersion  : 0.0120416 0.102367
Skewness and kurtosis: -0.0528344 1.19066
Median               : 0.000425562

.fi
.SH GSL
If the GNU Scientific Library (GSL) has been enabled during installation, the
\fBgsl=\fP and \fBpars\fP keyword will appear in the keyword list of xrandom.
The following random number distribution names are implemented, 
and the names of their parameters. Note that
the number of parameters, as given in \fBpars=\fP has to match exactly,  there are no
defaults.
.nf
gaussian               sigma
gaussian_ratio_method  sigma
gaussian_tail          a sigma
exponential            mu
laplace                a
exppow                 a b
cauchy                 a
rayleigh               sigma
rayleigh_tail          a sigma
landau                 N/A   
levy                   c alpha
levy_skey              c alpha beta
gamma                  a b
flat                   a b
lognormal              zeta sigma
chisq                  nu
fdist                  nu1 nu2
tdist                  nu
beta                   a b
logistic               a
pareto                 a b
weibull                a b
gumbel1                a b
gumbel2                a b
.fi
The following functions are discrete random number distributions, and return integers:
.nf
poisson                mu
bernoulli              p
binomial               p n
negative_binomial      p n
pascal                 p k
geometric              p
hypergeometric         n1 n2 nt
logarithmic            sigma
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
26-Nov-96	V1.0 turned TESTBED into a TOOLBOX program	PJT
13-apr-97	example
8-sep-01	V2.0 GSL optionally added	PJT
9-oct-2012	V2.2 added m=	PJT
.fi
