.TH XVPSNAP 1NEMO "8 June 1994"
.SH NAME
xvpsnap \- convert xvp NBODY files to snapshot format files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxvpsnap\fP \fBin=\fP\fIxvp_fiiile\fP [parameter=value] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBxvpsnap\fP converts (fortran) direct access files in Quinn/Balcells format
(see also \fIrvp(5NEMO)\fP) to standard \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP format. Some
control exists over which snapshots are extracted from the input file.
.PP
Currently the user must know if the input \fIxvp\fP file is in single or double
precision (native floating point) format. The output 
file will be in single precision \fIsnapshot\fP format.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input \fIxyp(5NEMO)\fP file. No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output \fIsnapshot(5NEMO)\fP
file. If none given, the program will automatically operate in scan-mode
and report all \fIselected\fP (see \fBmodel=\fP and \fBtimes=\fP below)
snapshots. 
Default: 
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fIt1[:t2],...\fP
Select by time ranges. \fI *** not implemented yet *** \fP
.TP
\fBmodel=\fP
Select by model numbers (0=all, 1=first). Any \fInemoinp(3NEMO)\fP expression
can be given. [Default: \fB0\fP (all)].
.TP
\fBheadline=\fP
Random verbiage added to the history of the output file.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP
Maximum number of bodies allowed for memory allocation. 
By default, the \fIxvp\fP input file will be scanned to retrieve 
the correct number of bodies. By using this keyword, this
scan will be skipped. In this case any too small number
will cause unpredictable results.
.TP
\fBnobytes=4|8\fP
Number of bytes per floating point number in the \fIxvp\fP
input data. Valid numbers are \fB4\fP (single precision) and
\fB8\fP (double precision) files. 
\fINote: \fP There is no way, other than trial and error, for the user
to find out if a dataset of unknown content is in single or double precision.
Default: 4.
.SH BUGS
\fIxvp(5NEMO)\fP files that consist of multiple snapshots must all be
equally sized.
.SH SEE ALSO
xvp(5NEMO), tabtos(1NEMO), atos(1NEMO), rvc(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +2i
~/usr/balcells/nora/{xvpread.f,xvprd8.f}	I/O routines for library
~/src/nbody/io/xvpsnap.c                	this program
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
30-May-94	V1.0 Created 	PJT
.fi
