.TH XYZVIEW 1NEMO "10 December 2003"
.SH NAME
xyzview \- Display 3-D point (velocity) and time data 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxyzview\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIxyzview\fP is an program with which 3-D
point data can be interactively displayed. It was initially developed
on an SGI using the gl(3) library, but using e.g. the VOGL emulator
library (available on most unix platforms) is quite an acceptable
alternative if you don't have an SGI workstation.  
.PP
It can also create a set of shadow particles that represent the
orbit of a selected star (see \fBorbit=\fP).
.SH INTERACTIVE KEYS/MOUSE BUTTONS
.TP 20
ESC
quit
.TP
SPACE
advance to next frame
.TP
RETURN
write \fBviewfile\fP with viewing parameters
.TP
LEFTMOUSE 
Viewing angles (xrot,yrot) are controlled by 
the X and Y cursor position. 
In most VOGL library versions you will
have to depress the '1' key to get the same effect as on the SGI.
.TP
MIDDLEMOUSE
Viewing scene (z viewing distance and field of view) are controlled by the X
and Y cursor position.
In most VOGL library versions you will
have to depress the '2' key to get the same effect as on the SGI.
.TP
RIGHTMOUSE
Velocity vectors (vscale and vskip) are controlled by the X and Y cursor
position. 
In most VOGL library versions you will
have to depress the '3' key to get the same effect as on the SGI.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Point data to display. This file must be in \fBxyzc\fP or
\fBxyzuvwc\fP format, usually created with \fIsnapxyz(1NEMO)\fP.
No default.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP
Range of times to display. [Default: \fBall\fP].
.TP
\fBscale=\fP
Scale factor for data.
.TP
\fBnfast=\fP
Max number of points to draw in fast mode.
.TP
\fBshowbox=\fP
Draw a cube, scale units high.
.TP
\fBmaxpoint=\fP
Process at least this many points.
.TP
\fBcolormap=\fP
File with color table (binary) . Default: no colormap.
.TP
\fBfullscreen=\fP
Use full screen (no border). [Default: \fIfalse\fP]. 
.TP
\fBposition=\fP
If given, set screen position. 
.TP
\fBaspect=\fP
If given, set aspect ratio.
.TP
\fBnoborder=\fP
Disable drawing window border.
.TP
\fBtextsize=\fP
Size of text in points. Default: 20
.TP
\fBident=\fP
ID message for display.
.TP
\fBviewfile=\fP
Output viewing parameters     
.TP
\fBmaxframe=\fP
Maximum number of frames to store for movies. [1000]
.TP
\fBorbit=\fP
Star number (0=first) to be selected to view the complete orbit
of. This is done by creating pseudo-particles, and hence is
somewhat memory consumptive if a lot of snapshots are used. If
this option is used, all particles are loaded automatically.
[Default: -1]
.TP
\fBmovie=t|f\fP
If set, snapshots from subsequent times will be automatically loaded. This 
is equivalent to hitting the 'l' (load all frames) as soon as the first
snapshot would have been loaded. Default: false.
.SH COLORS
The standard color indices on the SGI GL are:
.nf
BLACK           0   (background)
RED             1
GREEN           2
YELLOW          3
BLUE            4
MAGENTA         5
CYAN            6
WHITE           7
.fi
.SH BUGS
in VOGL switching between 1,2 and 3 mousebuttons does not preserve the setting
in the other frames. (orientation, zoom factor)
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is a simple example of loading a movie when using the VOGL
version (i.e. on most non-SGI machines). First create a simulation
with 33 frames using hackcode1, then convert the snapshots to
xyz frames, and startup xyzview (note you need to set 
an environment variable VDEVICE):
.nf
    hackcode1 out=r 64.dat tstop=4 freqout=8 > /dev/null
    snapxyz r64.dat r64.xyz
    setenv VDEVICE X11			(if not set yet)
    xyzview r64.xyz
.fi
now move the cursor in the window and depresss the '1' button and move
the cursor around. You will now interactively roam around in 3D-space.
Unfortunately (?) the cursor position is bound to a viewing angle
in absolute screen coordinates, and not where you last left it. This
often confuses users when they switch between buttons (keys) 1, 2 and 3.
.PP
Now switch to the '2' button and instead of roaming around, you now
zoom in and out of the picture. '3' is somewhat specialized, and attempts
to visualize the velocity vectors at the same time, for a subset of the
particles.
.PP
Now we we load in all the frames using the 'l' key. If you like to do this
under a certain zoom factor and viewing angle, you can set those first
with the 1,2,3 keys/cursor positions and then 'l' (load) all frames.
With the 'm' key you can switch between movie mode and display mode.
After the frames were loaded, you are still in display mode.
In display mode the 1/2/3 keys/buttons are bound to orientation/zoom/velocity
as you have seen before, in movie mode those are bound to 
backwards/continues/forwards motion of the frames. The most useful mode
is the continues mode. So, first hit 'm' (the '4' key is actually equivalent to
the 'm' key) to switch to movie
mode and then hit the '2' key and keep it depressed, and move the mouse
back and forth: the position is now bound to which frame will be displayed.
If you like to play with this movie at another viewing angle, hit 'm'
and play with '1', '2' and '3' to select another viewing, then hit 'm'
again and with '2' roam around in time. Happy roaming.
.PP
To orient yourself, in rotation mode when the mouse is in the center
of the image, you will see an X-Y view with the Z axis pointing outwards
of the screen. Moving the cursor from the center to the top, parallel
to the screen-Y axis will give an X-Z view (the X axis did not change
position, the Y axis will now point into the screen away from the
observer.
.SH SEE ALSO
snapxyz(1NEMO), snapcopy(1NEMO), snapplot(1NEMO)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.nf
.ta +1i
VDEVICE  	set the display device (X11,postscript,ppostscript,cps,pcps)
.fi
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +1i
src/nbody/xyz	source code
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Josh Barnes (original), Peter Teuben (animations, orbit viewing)
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
xx-xxx-90	V1.0 Created                      	JEB
20-jan-93	V1.x minor mods for VOGL emulator	PJT
30-mar-97	V2.0b formally released, added examples	PJT
4-apr-97	V2.1a made the '4' key equivalent to 'm'	PJT
3-sep-00	V2.2 added orbit=  orbit viewing	PJT
10-dec-03	V3.0 added movie=	PJT
.fi
