.TH YANCPARS 1NEMO "27 May 2001"
.SH NAME
yancpars \- add YANC parameters to an existing snapshot [deprecated]
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fByancpars\fP [parameter=value]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is deprecated, though the source code is still
available, because of its unique character.
.PP
\fByancpars\fP adds YANC integration parameters to a snapshot.
It will only read the first
snapshot, and discard all others. Use \fIcsf(1NEMO)\fP
or \fIsnaptrim(1NEMO)\fP to select an arbitrary snapshot. In addition,
any double precision snapshots will be converted to single
precision, since that is what YANC wants.
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized in any order if the keyword
is also given:
.TP 20
\fBin=\fP
Input file, must be a snapshot file. 
No default.
.TP
\fBout=\fP
Output file, in snapshot format. No default.
.TP
\fBeps=\fP
Softening length [0.05]     
.TP
\fBkernel=\fP
Softening kernel. See below for an enumeration of
this integer parameter [21]     
.TP
\fBtheta=\fP
Treecode opening angle [0.5]    
.TP
\fBhmin=\fP
Timestep dt=2^-hmin [5.0]     -- is this an integer or real --
26-may-01 PJT [1.0]     
.TP
\fBconvert=\fP
Convert certain types in the input data to another  type. Normally
YANC wants single precision, so any double will be converted to
single. [d2f].
.SH SOFTENING KERNEL
The following softening kernels are available:
.nf
.ta +1i
1-9	Ferrers softening, 'kernel' is the index
10-19	...
20	P0, the classic Plummer softening
21	P1
22	P2
23	P3
30	experimental
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
cfs(1NEMO), snaptrim(1NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Teuben
.SH UPDATE HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1.0i +4.0i
27-May-01	Created  	PJT
.fi
