.TH UNS_STACK 1NEMO "April 2, 2010"
.SH NAME
uns_stack \- superimpose two UNS N-body snapshots
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBuns_stack in1=\fPin_file1 \fBin2=\fPin_file2 \fBout=\fPout_file [parameter=value] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIuns_stack\fP reads in two UNS N-body systems and outputs one containing
particles from both.  It may be used to set up collisions by
specifying offsets in position and velocity space.
.PP
If more than two snapshots need to be stacked, multiple runs of \fIuns_stack\fP.
would be needed
.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are recognized.
.TP 24
\fBin1=\fP\fIin_file1\fP
.TP
\fBin2=\fP\fIin_file2\fP
Input data will be read from these files, which must be in
\fIUNS\fP format (currently Nemo and Gadget2 are supported).  Only the
first frames are used. Both input snapshot must have the same file format.

Default: \fIrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIout_file\fP
Output data will be written to \fIout_file\fP. The out file format
will be the same as input file format.
.TP
\fBdeltar=\fP\fIrel_position\fP
Relative position of first snapshot w.r.t. second.
Default: \fB0.0,0.0,0.0\fP.
.TP
\fBdeltav=\fP\fIrel_velocity\fP
Relative velocity of first snapshot w.r.t. second.
Default: \fB0.0,0.0,0.0\fP.
.TP
\fBshift=1|2\fP
Shift system1 or system2?  If the final system is shifted with center
of mass moved to the center, this option is not relevant anymore.
Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBzerocm=\fP\fIzero_cm_flag\fP
If true, translate to center of mass before output.
Default: \fBfalse\fP. 
.TP
\fBverbose=\fP\fIflag\fP
If true, give some verbose output.
Default: \fBTrue\fP.
.TP
.SH SEE ALSO
snapstack(1NEMO), snapadd(1NEMO), snapshot(5NEMO)
.SH AUTHOR
Jean-Charles LAMBERT
.SH HISTORY
.nf
.ta +1i +4i
02-Apr-10	V1.0 created	JCL
.fi

