.TH addgravity 1falcON "18 May 2004"

.SH name
addgravity \- adds gravity to a snapshot; using falcON (public version)

.SH synopsis
\fBaddgravity\fP [parameter=value]

.SH requirement
requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher, see
http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo.


.SH description
\fBaddgravity\fP uses Walter Dehnen's force algorithm of complexity
O(N) (\fBfalcON\fP), to add the gravitational potential and
accelerations to NEMO snapshots.

.SH parameters

.TP 12
\fBin=\fP\fIfile\fP
Input snapshots are read from \fIfile\fP, which must be in NEMO
snapshot format. If \fIfile\fP=-, input is expected from stdin,
useful for piping data from another program. Default: \fBrequired\fP
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIfile\fP
Snapshots are written in NEMO snapshot format to \fIfile\fP with same
body data as the input plus acceleration and potential.  Default:
\fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime range(s)\fP
Range(s) of simulation times, for which snapshots shall be processed.
Default: \fBall\fP.
.TP
\fBeps=\fP\fIval\fP
The (globally constant) softening length is set to \fIval\fP. For
details, see documentation in the user guide. Default: \fB0.05\fP.
.TP
\fBkernel=\fP\fInum\fP
The softening kernel is taken to be the P\fInum\fP kernel (see the
documentation in the user guide). Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBtheta=\fP\fIval\fP
The tolerance parameter for \fBfalcON\fP is set to \fIval\fP. It is
recommended to stick to the default or smaller value, but see the
discussion in the \fBfalcON\fP user guide Default: \fB0.6\fP.
.TP
\fBNcrit=\fP\fInum\fP
In building the tree, a cell containg \fInum\fP bodies or less is not
splitted. Default: \fB6\fP.

.SH see also
gyrfalcON(1falcON), getgravity(1falcON)
.PP
.nf
Dehnen, W., 2000, ApJ, 536, L39
Dehnen, W., 2002, JCP, 179, 27

.fi
.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf                         \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP
.fi
.SH author
.nf
Walter Dehnen                              walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
18-May-2004	first version of manual  WD
.fi


