.TH addprop 1falcON "21 December 2007"

.SH name
addprop \- adds (or replaces) a body property in nemo snapshots

.SH synopsis
\fBaddprop\fP [parameter=value]

.SH requirement
requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher, see
http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo.


.SH description
\fBaddprop\fP adds a body property and assigns a value, evaluated from
a \fIbodyfunc(5falcON)\fP expressions and parameters provided.

.SH parameters

.TP 12
\fBin=\fP\fIfile\fP
Input snapshots are read from \fIfile\fP, which must be in NEMO
snapshot format. If \fIfile\fP=-, input is expected from stdin,
useful for piping data from another program. Default: \fBrequired\fP
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIfile\fP
Snapshots are written in NEMO snapshot format to \fIfile\fP with same
body data as the input plus acceleration and potential.  Default:
\fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime range(s)\fP
Range(s) of simulation times, for which snapshots shall be processed.
Default: \fBall\fP.
.TP
\fBwrite=\fP\fIIOstring\fP
Specifies which data shall be written out.
Default: \fBall\fP.
.TP
\fBprop=\fP\fIval\fP
The body property to be added/replaced encoded as single character.
Default: \fBrequired\fP
.TP
\fBvalue=\fP\fIexpr\fP
\fIbodyfunc(5falcON)\fP expression used to evaluate new property for
each body. Default: \fBrequired\fP
.TP
\fBpars=\fP\fIparameter list\fP
If the \fIbodyfunc(5falcON)\fP expression given with \fBvalue=\fP
requires parameters (up to 10), these must be provided (as comma-separated
list) with \fBpars=\fP. No Default.

.SH see also
bodyfunc(5falcON), snapprop(1falcON)
.PP
.nf

.fi
.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf                         \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP
.fi
.SH author
.nf
Walter Dehnen                              walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
21-Dec-2007	first version of manual  WD
.fi


