.TH density_centre 1falcON "19 May 2004"

.SH name
density_centre \- find the global density maximum; center snapshots

.SH synopsis
\fBdensity_centre\fP [parameter=value]

.SH requirement
requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher, see
http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo.


.SH description
\fBdensity_centre\fP finds the position \fBx\fP_c at which
.nf

	               1              |\fBx\fP_c-\fBx\fP_i|
(1)	rho_h(\fBx\fP_c) = ----- Sum m_i W( --------- )
	              h^3   i             h

has a global maximum.  The  kernel  W(r) is  proportional  to (1-r^2)^3
for r<1  and  W=0 for r>1  (Ferrers n=3 sphere),   while the  smoothing
length h is determined such that a fixed number of bodies contribute to
the density estimate.

The routine  first builds an  oct-tree with final cells containing less
then  Ncen/4  bodies  and then  uses the  center of mass of the densest
final  cell  as  the  initial  guess for   \fBx\fP_c,   which  is iteratively
improved.  This process is  somewhat  slow, but reliable,  i.e.  really
finds even a weak density peak.  (If you think you have a better/faster
way to do it, I would like  to test it on some snapshots which my older
versions failed.)

.SH parameters

.TP 16
\fBin=\fP\fIfile\fP
Input snapshots are read from \fIfile\fP, which must be in NEMO
snapshot format and contain at least masses and positions. If
\fIfile\fP=-, input is expected from stdin, useful for piping data
from another program. Default: \fBrequired\fP
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIfile\fP
If given, snapshots are first centred on the position and velocity of
the density centre found and then written in NEMO snapshot format to
\fIfile\fP with same body data as the input, unless \fBgive\fP
specifies otherwise. No default.
.TP
\fBgive=\fP\fIIOstring\fP
If given, only body data indicated by \fIIOstring\fP (and present in
the input) are written out with the snapshot output. No default.
.TP
\fBstep=\fP\fIval\fP
If snapshots are written out, the outputs are made every \fIval\fP
simulation time units.  If \fIval\fP=0, every snapshot processed is
written out.  Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime range(s)\fP
Range(s) of simulation times, for which snapshots shall be processed.
Default: \fBall\fP.
.TP
\fBNcen=\fP\fInum\fP
The smoothing length h is set such that \fInum\fP bodies contribute
to the density estimate (1). Default: \fB200\fP
.TP
\fBcentrefile=\fP\fIfile\fP
Simulation time, position \fBx\fP_c, velocity \fBv\fP_c (if body
velocities are given), and density rho_h(\fBx\fP_c) of the centre are
written to \fIfile\fP for every snapshot processed.  If \fIfile\fP=-,
output is made to stdout, while if \fIfile\fP=. no output is
made. Default: \fB - \fP.
.TP
\fBcenterfile=\fP\fIfile\fP
If given, this superseeds the \fIfile\fP given with \fBcentrefile\fP.
(to please American spellers)

.SH remark
Useful for isolated stellar systems only.

.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf                         \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP
.fi
.SH author
.nf
Walter Dehnen                              walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
18-May-2004	first version of manual  WD
.fi


