.TH gyrfalcON 1falcON "28 February 2007"

.SH name
gyrfalcON \- a superberb N-body code (public version)

.SH synopsis
\fBgyrfalcON\fP [parameter=value]

.SH requirement
requires NEMO version 3.2.1 or higher, see
http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo. It is recommended to configure NEMO
with \fBconfigure --enable-single --enable-lfs\fP.

.SH description
\fBgyrfalcON\fP stands for "GalaxY simulatoR using \fBfalcON\fP". It is a
full-fledged N-body code using Walter Dehnen's force algorithm of
complexity O(N) (\fBfalcON\fP), which is about 10 times faster than an
optimally coded tree code. \fBgyrfalcON\fP features individual
adaptive time steps and individual (but fixed) softening lengths.

.SH parameters controlling I/O

.TP 14
\fBin=\fP\fIfile\fP
Input data is read from \fIfile\fP, which must be in NEMO
snapshot format.  If \fIfile\fP=-, input is expected from
stdin, useful for piping data from another program. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIfile\fP
Unless \fBresume=t\fP (see below), primary output is written to
\fIfile\fP in NEMO snapshot format. If
\fIfile\fP=-, output is written to stdout; If
\fIfile\fP=., no output is made. Default: \fBrequired\fP unless
\fBresume=t\fP.
.TP
\fBgive=\fP\fIIOstring\fP
Specifies which data are given with primary data
output. \fIIOstring\fP must be an unbroken string of characters, each
of which indicates a datum (per body) to be written. The meanings are
as follows. \fBm\fP=mass, \fBx\fP=position, \fBv\fP=velocity,
\fBp\fP=N-body potential, \fBq\fP=external potential (to be added to
the N-body potential), \fBa\fP=acceleration, \fBe\fP=individual
softening lengths, and \fBl\fP=time-step levels. Default: \fBmxv\fP.
.TP
\fBstep=\fP\fIval\fP
Primary data output is made every \fIval\fP simulation time units.
If \fIval\fP=0 output is made every blockstep. Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBstartout=t|f\fP
Write primary output at the initial simulation time. Default \fBt\fP.
.TP
\fBlastout=t|f\fP
Write primary output at the last simulation time, even if not at an
ordinary output step. Default: \fBt\fP.
.TP
\fBout2=\fP\fIfile\fP
If given, secondary output is written to \fIfile\fP in NEMO snapshot
format. If \fIfile\fP=-, output is written to stdout; If \fIfile\fP=.,
no secondary output is made. No default.
.TP
\fBgive2=\fP\fIIOstring\fP
Specifies which data are given with primary data output; same format
as for \fBgive\fP. Default: \fBmxv\fP.
.TP
\fBstep2=\fP\fIval\fP
Scondary data output is made every \fIval\fP simulation time units.
If \fIval\fP=0, output is made every blockstep. Useful for piping results
to an analysing programm. Default: \fBmxv\fP.
.TP
\fBlogfile=\fP\fIfile\fP
Log output (time, total energy, angular momentum, CPU time consumption
etc) is written to \fIfile\fP. If \fIfile\fP=-, log output is
made to stdout. Default: \fB-\fP.
.TP
\fBlogstep=\fP\fInum\fP
Log output is made every \fInum\fP blocksteps. Default \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBresume=t|f\fP
Resume an old simulation: input is read from the last snapshot in the
\fBin\fPput file; primary data output is appended to the same file
(\fIout\fP is ignored). Default: \fBf\fP.

.SH parameters controlling the time integration

.TP 14
\fBtstop=\fP\fIval\fP
The simulation shall be halted at simulation time=\fIval\fP. By
default, the simulation will not be stopped at a pre-defined time, see
also \fBstopfile\fP. If \fIval\fP equals the initial simulation time,
the initial forces are computed and, if so desired, output is made for
this time only. No Default.
.TP
\fBstopfile=\fP\fIfile\fP
If given, the code stops as soon as \fIfile\fP is found to exist. If
\fBlastout=t\fP, a final output is made. This mechanism allows a
controlled end of a simulation: an analyzing tool, which obtains the
simulation data via the pipe from \gyrfalcON\ may find that a pre-set
condition for ending the simulation is satisfied and create a
stopfile. No Default.
.TP
\fBkmax=\fP\fIval\fP
The longest time step is taken to be \fBtau\fP=2^(-\fIval\fP)
simulation time units long. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBNlev=\fP\fInum\fP
\fInum\fP time-step levels will be used. If \fInum\fP=1, a leap-frog
integrator with constant global time step \fBtau\fP is
used. Otherwise, if \fInum\fP>1, a block-step scheme with \fInum\fP
time-step levels is used, i.e. the longest step contains
2^(\fInum\fP-1) shortest steps. The bodies' individual time-step
levels are adapted in an (almost) time symmetric fashion as controlled
by the parameters \fBfac\fP, \fBfph\fP, \fBfpa\fP, and \fBfea\fP.
.TP
\fBfac=\fP\fIfac\fP \fBfph=\fP\fIfph\fP \fBfpa=\fP\fIfpa\fP \fBfea=\fP\fIfea\fP
These factors control the average time step of a body to be the
minimum of

\fIfac\fP/|\fBa\fP|,

\fIfph\fP/|\fBPhi\fP|,

\fIfpa\fP*sqrt(|\fBPhi\fP|)/|\fBa\fP|, and

\fIfea\fP*sqrt(\fBe\fP/|\fBa\fP|),

where \fBa\fP, \fBPhi\fP, and \fBe\fP denote the acceleration,
potential and softening length, respectively. If either of these
factors is zero, it is ignored.

In order to make a sensible choice for \fBhmin\fP, \fBNlev\fP,
\fBfac\fP, \fBfph\fP, \fBfpa\fP, and \fBfea\fP, use the following
method. (1) Decide on the smallest time step: think what time step you
would use in a single-time-step leap-frog scheme and then set
\fBtau\fP (via \fBhmin\fP) to about half of that. (2) Decide on the
largest time step, whereby ensuring that orbits in regions of very low
density are accurately integrated when using the above criterion.  (3)
Do some tests with varying \fBfac\fP, \fBfph\fP, \fBfpa\fP, and
\fBfea\fP (set \fBtstop=0\fP), in order to check that the distribution
of bodies over the time steps is reasonable, in particular there
should be a few percent in the smallest time step.

Note that using this scheme is sensible only if you really have a very
inhomogeneous stellar system, because otherwise, the simple
single-time-step leap-frog is only slightly less efficient but somewhat
more accurate. In particular, with the block-step scheme, the total
momentum is not conserved, but with the single-time-step leap-frog it
is. No defaults.

.SH parameters controlling  Gravity

.TP 14
\fBtheta=\fP\fIval\fP
The tolerance parameter for \fBfalcON\fP is set to \fIval\fP. It is
recommended to stick to the default or smaller value, but see the
discussion in the \fBfalcON\fP user guide Default: \fB0.6\fP.
.TP
\fBNcrit=\fP\fInum\fP
In building the tree, a cell containg \fInum\fP bodies or less is not
splitted. This parameter controls the speed with which the tree is
build. The default is chosen to yield best performance for a single
time step leap-frog scheme. If you are using individual adaptive time
steps (see above), you may consider to increase \fInum\fP
somewhat. This has little effect on the forces (actually makes them
slightly more accurate) but may reduce the CPU time consumption (only
with individual adaptive time steps). Default: \fB6\fP.
.TP
\fBeps=\fP\fIval\fP
If \fIval\fP>=0, \fIval\fP is taken to be the (globally constant)
softening length. If \fIval\fP<0, bodies are assumed to have inidividual
softening lengths, which must be provided with the input data. The
individual softening lengths will be kept fixed at their initial
values throughout the simulation. With this method, you can have
larger softening length for more massive bodies, in order to have the
same maximum force (requiring individual softening lengths
proporptional to the square root of the body mass). Default: \fB0.05\fP.
.TP
\fBkernel=\fP\fInum\fP
The softening kernel is taken to be the P\fInum\fP kernel (see the
documentation in the user guide). Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBGrav=\fP\fIval\fP
The numerical value of Newton's constant of gravity is set to
\fIval\fP. Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBhgrow=\fP\fInum\fP
With this option you can suppress the re-growing of the tree every
(shortest) time step. Instead, the tree is grown only every
2^(\fInum\fP) shortest steps and re-used otherwise. Note, however that
re-using the tree violates time symmetry. I have not much experience
with this option and recommend not to use it, unless you want to
validate it first.
.TP
\fBroot_center=\fP\fIx,y,z\fP
If given, the root cell of the oct-tree used in the \fBfalcON\fP
algorithm is centred on the position \fIx,y,z\fP. No default.
.TP
\fBaccname=\fP\fIname\fP
If given, an external acceleration field with that name is used. The
code searches for a shared object file and loads it dynamically. If
the shared object file does not contain functionality for an external
acceleration field, but for an external old-style \fBNEMO\fP
potential, that is used to construct an acceleration field (fall-back
mechanism).  Several acceleration fields may be added by the syntax
\fBaccname=\fP\fIname1\fP\fB+\fP\fIname2\fP\fB+\fP\fIname3\fP.  No
default.

.TP
\fBaccpars=\fP\fIparameter list\fP
If \fBaccname\fP is given, the external acceleration field is using
the \fIparameter list\fP, a comma-separated list of floating point
numbers, for initialisation. If more than one \fBaccname\fP is given,
a parameter list (possibly empty) must be given for each, separated
by either \fB;\fP or \fB#\fP. No default.
.TP
\fBaccfile=\fP\fIfile\fP If \fBaccname\fP is given, the external
acceleration field is using the the \fIfile\fP, if any, for
initialisation. If more than one \fBaccname\fP is given, a file name
(possibly empty) must be given for each, separated by either \fB;\fP
or \fB#\fP. No default.

.SH other parameters
.TP 25
\fBmanipname=\fP\fIname\fP
If given, a run-time manipulator with that name is used. The code
searches for a shared object file and loads it dynamically. Several
manipulators may be concatinated by the syntax
\fBmanipname=\fP\fIname1\fP\fB+\fP\fIname2\fP\fB+\fP\fIname3\fP. No
default.
.TP
\fBmanippars=\fP\fIparameter list\fP
If \fBmanipname\fP is given, the run-time manipulator is using
the \fIparameter list\fP, a comma-separated list of floating point
numbers, for initialisation. If more than one \fBmanipname\fP is given,
a parameter list (possibly empty) must be given for each, separated
by either \fB;\fP or \fB#\fP. No default.
.TP
\fBmanipfile=\fP\fIfile\fP
If \fBmanipname\fP is given, the run-time manipulator is using the the
\fIfile\fP, if any, for initialisation. If more than one
\fBmanipname\fP is given, a file name (possibly empty) must be given
for each, separated by either \fB;\fP or \fB#\fP. No default.
.TP
\fBmanippath=\fP\fIpath\fP
If \fBmanipname\fP is given, the path \fIpath\fP is searched for a file
\fBmanipname.so\fP to lead the manipulator. By default, the path searched
is ".:$FALCON/manip".

.SH example

In order to integrate a Plummer sphere with N=10^5 particles, you may
issue the command
.PP
\fBmkplum - 100000 seed=1 | gyrfalcON - plum.snp tstop=10 kmax=6 eps=0.1
.PP
which first creates initial conditions from a Plummer model, which are
then piped into \fBgyrfalcON\fP. \fBgyrfalcON\fP creates an output
file \fBplum.snp\fP containing output every full time unit until time
t=10. The log output looks like this:
.PP
.nf
# ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# "gyrfalcON - plum.snp tstop=10 kmax=6 eps=0.1"
#
# run at  Wed Feb 28 09:36:44
#     by  "wd11"
#     on  "virgo"
#     pid  5620
#
#    time       E=T+V        T          V_in        W         -2T/W     |L|      |v_cm| l2R  D  tree  grav  step  accumulated
# ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 0.0000     -0.1461342    0.14677    -0.29290    -0.29161    1.0066  0.0021715  0.0017    9 16  0.07  0.94  1.02   0:00:01.02
 0.015625   -0.1461343    0.14677    -0.29290    -0.29161    1.0066  0.0021715  0.0017    9 16  0.05  0.95  1.02   0:00:02.04
 0.031250   -0.1461347    0.14677    -0.29290    -0.29161    1.0066  0.0021714  0.0017    9 16  0.04  0.95  1.02   0:00:03.06
 0.046875   -0.1461345    0.14677    -0.29290    -0.29161    1.0066  0.0021714  0.0017    9 16  0.04  0.96  1.02   0:00:04.08
 .
 .
 .
 9.9531     -0.1461328    0.14451    -0.29065    -0.28940    0.99873 0.0021646  0.0017    9 16  0.05  0.96  1.03   0:10:47.70
 9.9688     -0.1461329    0.14451    -0.29065    -0.28939    0.99873 0.0021646  0.0017    9 16  0.05  0.95  1.01   0:10:48.71
 9.9844     -0.1461329    0.14451    -0.29064    -0.28939    0.99872 0.0021646  0.0017    9 16  0.06  0.95  1.02   0:10:49.73
 10.000     -0.1461333    0.14451    -0.29064    -0.28940    0.99870 0.0021647  0.0017    9 16  0.04  0.95  1.01   0:10:50.74
.if

.SH output data warning (NEMO)
\fBgyrfalcON\fP, much like ZENO programs, writes a new type of SnapShot files,
in which the \fIPhaseSpace\fP array has been split into a
\fIPosition\fP and \fIVelocity\fP array. The \fIget_snap\fP macros 
understand this flavor, but will - for now - convert the data back
into the less flexible type with combined \fIPhaseSpace\fP coordinates.

.SH see also
addgravity(1falcON), getgravity(1falcON)
.PP
.nf
Dehnen, W., 2000, ApJ, 536, L39
Dehnen, W., 2001, MNRAS, 324, 273
Dehnen, W., 2002, JCP, 179, 27

.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf                         \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP
.fi
.SH author
.nf
Walter Dehnen                              walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
18-may-2004	first version of manual    WD
01-jul-2004	version 2.2 of gyrfalcON   WD
27-sep-2005	version 3.0.4 of gyrfalcON WD
28-feb-2007     version 3.0.9 of gyrfalcON WD
.fi
