.TH mkhalo 1falcON "17 September 2007"
.SH name
mkhalo \- initial conditions from quite general spherical model (public version)

.SH synopsis
\fBmkhalo\fP [parameter=value]

.SH requirement
requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher, see http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo.

.SH description
\fBmkhalo\fP creates N-body initial conditions with spherical density
.nf

	                        sech (r/r_t)
	rho(r) = C ------------------------------------,
	            inner     eta     (outer-inner)/eta
	           x      * (x    + 1) 

.if

with

.nf
                   2    2
        x  = sqrt(r  + r_c)/r_s

.if

Default parameters will construct a Dehnen McLaughlin (2005) model.

.SH parameters

.TP 12
\fBout=\fP\fIfile\fP
The initial conditions are written in NEMO snapshot format to \fIfile\fP.
If \fIfile\fP=-, output is made to stdout. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fInum\fP
The initial conditions will contain \fInum\fP body masses, positions,
and velocities. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBinner=\fP\fIval\fP
The inner logarithmic slope (parameter inner above) is set to \fIval\fP.
Default: \fB7/9\fP.
.TP
\fBouter=\fP\fIval\fP
The outer logarithmic slope (parameter outer above) is set to \fIval\fP.
Default: \fB31/9\fP.
.TP
\fBeta=\fP\fIval\fP
The parameter eta, controlling the transitions in power-law slopes,
is set to \fIval\fP.
Default: \fB4/9\fP.
.TP
\fBmass=\fP\fIval\fP
The total mass of the model is set to \fIval\fP;
used to determined the constant C. Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBr_s=\fP\fIval\fP
The scale radius of the Dehnen sphere is set to \fIval\fP. Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBr_2=\fP\fIval\fP
If given, \fBr_s\fP is ignored and the scale radius set such that the
negative logarithmic density slope equals 2 at radius equal  \fIval\fP
The scale radius of the Dehnen sphere is set to \fIval\fP. No Default.
.TP
\fBr_c=\fP\fIval\fP
The core radius of the model set to \fIval\fP. Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBr_t=\fP\fIval\fP
The truncation radius of the model is set to \fIval\fP.
\fBNote\fP if \fIval=0\fP, the truncation radius is set to inifinity.
Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fInum\fP
We will use \fInum\fP as seed for the (pseudo-) random number generator.
If \fInum\fP=0, a unique new seed is created from the current value of
the time, otherwise, the seed actually provided is used. Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBq_ran=t|f\fP
If true, we use quasi-random rather than pseudo-random numbers for
drawing position and angles in velocity space. Pseudo-random numbers
are still used in the rejection-method to draw the total velocity from
the DF. Default: \fBf\fP.
.TP
\fBeps=\fP\fIval\fP
If given, all individual softening lengths are set to \fIval\fP.
No Default.
.TP
\fBf_pos=\fP\fIval\fP
The fraction of bodies with positive sense of rotation
about the z-axis is set to \fIval\fP. Default: \fB0.5\fP.
.TP
\fBgiveF=\fP\fIt|f\fP
If true, the phase-space densities of the model are written with
the snapshot in the auxiliary data fields.
Default: \fBf\fP.
.TP
\fBaccname=\fP\fIname\fP
If given, the potential \fIname\fP is taken as external potential
(in addition to the potential generated by the density model sampled)
and taken into account when computing the equilibrium.
No Default.
.TP
\fBaccpars=\fP\fIvals\fP
If \fBaccname\fP is given, the parameters \fIvals\fP are provided as
parameters for the external potential.
No Default.
.TP
\fBaccfile=\fP\fIfile\fP
If \fBaccname\fP is given, the file \fIname\fP is provided as
data file for the external potential.
No Default.

.SH see also
mkdehnen(1falcON), mkplum(1falcON), mkking(1falcON)
.PP
.nf
McMillan & Dehnen, 2007, MNRAS, 378, 541

.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf                         \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP
falcON/doc/mkgalaxy_user_guide.pdf                \fIUser Guide for mkhalo
.fi
.SH author
.nf
Walter Dehnen                              walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
17-Sep-2004	first version of manual  WD
.fi


