.TH mkking 1falcON "18 May 2004"

.SH name
mkking \- initial conditions from a King model

.SH synopsis
\fBmkking\fP [parameter=value]

.SH requirement
requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher, see http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo.


.SH description
\fBmkking\fP creates N-body initial conditions from an isotropic single-mass
Plummer model and writes them in NEMO snapshot format.

.SH parameters

.TP 10
\fBout=\fP\fIfile\fP
The initial conditions are written in NEMO snapshot format to \fIfile\fP.
If \fIfile\fP=-, output is made to stdout. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBnbody=\fP\fInum\fP
The initial conditions will contain \fInum\fP body masses, positions,
and velocities. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBW0=\fP\fIval\fP
The dimensionless central potential depth of the King model is set to
\fIval\fP. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBseed=\fP\fInum\fP
We will use \fInum\fP as seed for the (pseudo-) random number generator.  If
\fInum\fP=0, a unique new seed is created from the current value of the time,
otherwise, the seed actually provided is used. Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBtime=\fP\fIval\fP
The simulation time associated with the initial conditions is set to \fIval\fP.
Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
\fBmass=\fP\fIval\fP
The total mass of the King model is set to \fIval\fP. Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBr_c=\fP\fIval\fP
The core radius of the King model is set to \fIval\fP. Default: \fB1\fP.
.TP
\fBr_t=\fP\fIval\fP
If given, the limiting (or truncation) radius of the King model
is set to \fIval\fP and the core radius given with the parameter
\fBr_c\fP is ignored. No default.
.TP
\fBeps=\fP\fIval\fP
If given, a softening length \fIval\fP is written out with each body.
No default.
.TP
\fBq_ran=t|f\fP
If true, quasi-random rather than pseudo-random numbers are used. In this case,
the \fBseed\fP value becomes meaningless.  Default: \fBf\fP.
.TP
\fBWD_units=t|f\fP
If true, units for \fBmass\fP and \fBr_c\fP or \fBr_t\fP will be taken as solar
mass and kpc, respectively, but output units will be in kpc (positions), kpc/Gyr
(velocities), and 222288.47 solar masses (implying Newton's G=1).  Default:
\fBf\fP.
.TP
\fBoutputs=t|f\fP
If true, some global properties of the King model, like W0, total mass, core,
truncation & half-mass radius, central velocity dispersion and density, and
total energy are printed to stderr. Default: \fBf\fP.
.TP
\fBtable=\fP\fIfile\fP
If given, a table with radii \fBr\fP, potential \fBPhi(r)\fP, density
\fBrho(r)\fP, and cumulative mass \fBM(r)\fP are written to \fIfile\fP.  No
default.

.SH see also
mkdehnen(1falcON), mkplum(1falcON)
.PP

.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf                         \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP
.fi
.SH author
.nf
Walter Dehnen                              walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
18-May-2004	first version of manual  WD
.fi


