.TH s2g 1falcON "16 Feb 2007"

.SH name
\fBs2g\fP \- converts nemo snapshots to gadget data file(s) using falcON

.SH synopsis
\fB2s2g\fP [parameter=value]

.SH requirement
requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher, see
http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo.

.SH description
\fBs2g\fP reads nemo from a nemo snapshot file and writes each
snapshot into a separate file in gadget data format 1.

.SH parameters

.TP 12
\fBin=\fP\fIfile\fP
Input file name (nemo snapshot file). Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIfbase\fP
Base file name for gadget snapshot data file(s). Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBcopy=\fP\fIIOstring\fP
Specifies which data shall be copied to gadget data file(s).
Default: \fBmxvkU\fP, Maximum: \fBmxvkURHap\fP.

A gadget data file must at least contain positions, velocities, keys
(ids), masses (if not specified via the header), and internal gas
energies. In addition it may contain gas densities, gas smoothing
lengths, potentials, and accelerations. All data specified by the
\fIIOstring\fP will be written, but at least \fBmxvkU\fP and at most
\fBmxvkURHap\fP. If some data were not present in the nemo snapshot,
zero values will be substituted.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime range(s)\fP
Specifies the times for the snapshots to be converted. If
\fBtimes\fP=="first", only the first snapshot in the nemo snapshot
file is converted. Default: \fBfirst\fP
.TP
\fBfirst=\fP\fIval\fP
Specifies the running index of the first gadget snapshot file. If
\fBtimes\fP!="first", output will be made to the files
\fIfbase\fP\fBXXX\fP where \fBXXX\fP labels the snapshots, starting
at \fBfirst\fP. Default: \fB0\fP
.TP
\fBwarn=\fP\fIt/f\fP
If true, a warning is issued if data need to be zeroed. Default: \fBf\fP
.TP
\fBheader=\fP\fIval\fP
Size (in bytes) of the FORTRAN record header to be used in writing the
gadget files. For compatibility, this should usually be 4, but on some
64bit machines, gadget may require 8. Default: \fB4\fP.


.SH see also
g2s(1falcON)
.PP

.fi
.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf               \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP.
.fi
.SH author
Walter Dehnen   walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
16-Feb-2007	first version of manual  WD
.fi


