.TH snapprop 1falcON "07 November 2004"

.SH Name
snapprop \- evaluates global properties of N-body snapshots.

.SH Synopsis
\fBsnapprop\fP [parameter=value]

.SH Requirement
requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher.

.SH description
\fBsnapprop\fP uses a \fIbodiesfunc(5falcON)\fP expression to obtain a
\fIbodiesfunc(3falcON)\fP function, which is finally evaluated for 
N-body snapshots and the return value reported to \fBstdout\fP.

.SH Parameters
.TP 12
\fBin=\fP\fIfile\fP
Input data are read from \fIfile\fP, which must be in NEMO snapshot
format. If \fIfile\fP=-, input is expected from stdin. Default:
\fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBprop=\fP\fIexpr\fP
\fIexpr\fP must be a \fIbodiesfunc(5falcON)\fP expression. It will be
used to generate a \fIbodiesfunc(3falcON)\fP function. Default:
\fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBpars=\fP\fIparameter list\fP
If the \fIbodiesfunc(5falcON)\fP expression given with fBprop=\fP
requires parameters (up to 10), these must be provided (as comma-separated
list) with \fBpars=\fP. No Default.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime range(s)\fP
Range(s) of simulation times, for which snapshots shall be processed. 
Default: \fBall\fP.
.TP
\fBzeromissing=t|f\fP 
If true, body data missing from the snapshot but required for the
\fIbodiesfunc(3falcON)\fP function are reset to zero, Otherwise an
error is issued and no output is made. Default: \fBf\fP.

.SH Examples
To find the minimum softening length, type
.br
\fB	snapprop in=data prop="Min{eps}"\fP.
.sp
To evaluate the mass-weighted mean specific angular momentum of all
bodies which rotate prograde around the z-axis, type
.br
\fB	snapprop in=data prop="Mmean{l@lz>0}"\fP.
.sp
To evaluate the mass within a radius of 0.1 from the origin, type
.br
\fB	snapprop in=data prop="Sum{m@r<$0}" pars=0.1\fP.
.sp
To obtain the rms radial velocity of all bound bodies, type
.br
\fB	snapprop in=data prop="sqrt(Mean{vr*vr@E<0})"\fP
.br
(note that for this example the data must contain the body potentials).
.sp
To count the number of bodies within four times minimum softening
length, type
.br
\fB	snapprop in=data prop="Num{r<#0*Min{eps}}" pars=4\fP.


.SH See also
bodiesfunc(1falcON), bodiesfunc(5falcON)
.SH Author
Walter Dehnen
.SH Update History
.nf
.ta +1.0i +6.0i
21-jul-2004 Created	WD
20-aug-2004 improved bodiesfunc	WD
07-nov-2004 parameters added, changed cond#expr to expr@cond	WD
12-jul-2006 Updated	WD
.fi
