.TH symmetrize 1falcON "19 May 2004"

.SH name
symmetrize \- symmetrizes snapshots

.SH synopsis
\fBsymmetrize\fP [parameter=value]

.SH requirement
requires NEMO version 3.0.13 or higher, see
http://www.astro.umd.edu/nemo.


.SH description
\fBsymmetrize\fP takes input snapshots, symmetrizes them by
reflecting the bodies at the origin and the equator, and
writes them out again.


.SH parameters

.TP 12
\fBin=\fP\fIfile\fP
Input snapshots are read from \fIfile\fP, which must be in NEMO
snapshot format and contain at least positions. If \fIfile\fP=-, input
is expected from stdin, useful for piping data from another
program. Default: \fBrequired\fP
.TP
\fBout=\fP\fIfile\fP
Snapshots are written in NEMO snapshot format to \fIfile\fP with same
body data as the input. Default: \fBrequired\fP.
.TP
\fBtimes=\fP\fItime range(s)\fP
Range(s) of simulation times, for which snapshots shall be processed.
Default: \fBall\fP.
.TP
\fBuse=\fP\fInum\fP
Every \fInum\fPth body of the input snapshot is processed.
Default: \fB2\fP.
.TP
\fBcopy=\fP\fInum\fP [0,1,2]
Every processed body is replaced by 2^\fInum\fP (up to 4) copies. If
\fInum\fP=0, the body is simply copied. \fInum\fP=1, the body is 
replaced by its very copy and another body obtained by reflection
at the origin. \fInum\fP=2, each body is replaced by four copies
obtained by reflection at the origin and the equator (z=0 plane).
Default: \fB1\fP.

.SH remark
Useful for isolated stellar systems only.

.SH files
.ta +3i
.nf
falcON/doc/user_guide.pdf                         \fIUser Guide for falcON\fP
.fi
.SH author
.nf
Walter Dehnen                              walter.dehnen@astro.le.ac.uk
.SH update history of this man page
.nf
.ta +1.0i +2.0i
19-May-2004	first version of manual  WD
.fi


